MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode
of Critical Role,
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors
sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
TRAVIS: (hollering) We play Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: Just like that.
Before we get into tonight's session,
we have a few announcements to get through,
beginning with our fantastic sponsor for tonight,
our friends since the beginning of Campaign Two,
D&D Beyond.
Sam.
TRAVIS: ♪ D&D Beyond! ♪
SAM: D&D Beyond!
Thanks to D&D Beyond for continuing
to support the show.
The Wildemount Campaign Guide is only a few short weeks away
from being released.
Go grab it and find out more at
dndbeyond.link--
(chair scraping)
LAURA: Sorry.
SAM: Dot link.
/criticalrole.
To celebrate this amazing literary achievement,
I'm going to present to you a musical spectacle tonight
that you've never seen before.
We have-- D&D Beyond has a theme song
that I, Sam Riegel, wrote, recorded, and vocalized.
But Ashley Johnson is such a beloved fan of the song,
that she does not know how the melody goes.
ASHLEY: Yeah, it's crazy how much I've listened to it
and know it so well.
SAM: So tonight, I proudly present,
Ashley Johnson singing
the D&D Beyond theme song a capella.
ASHLEY: A capella?!
SAM: Yeah, a capella.
Without having listened to it ahead of time.
TRAVIS: Yep, the immediate reaction.
MARISHA: Yeah!
SAM: She's got the lyrics.
She can use them if she needs them,
but I know she's such a huge fan of the show
and the song she won't need them.
Take it away, Ashley.
ASHLEY: ♪ You got the perfect warlock ♪
♪ Her weapons and supplies ♪
(laughter)
SAM: Close.
ASHLEY: ♪ But you need a place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'Cause you're so disorganized ♪
SAM: Hey, that was pretty good!
ASHLEY: ♪ You click open a web page ♪
SAM: That's the same.
ASHLEY: ♪ You heard about on Critical Role ♪
SAM: That's good.
ASHLEY: ♪ And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ In a mineshaft full of gnolls ♪
There it is.
LAURA and ASHLEY: ♪ It's D&D ♪
ASHLEY: ♪ D&D Beyond ♪
SAM: That's good, that's good!
ASHLEY: ♪ D&D ♪
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: ♪ D&D ♪
ASHLEY: ♪ You've got your staffs ♪
♪ You've got your swords ♪
♪ You got your stuffs ♪
(laughter)
♪ And you got your invisible wand ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
MARISHA: ♪ D&D ♪
ASHLEY: ♪ D&D ♪
TRAVIS: (drum fill)
ASHLEY: ♪ D&D Beyond! ♪
(applause)
SAM: Yay, Ashley!
It was a pitch perfect performance.
ASHLEY: Yeah, thank you so much.
SAM: So good, thank you.
LIAM: The cutest thing that ever happened.
ASHLEY: I know it well.
TALIESIN: That was amazing.
SAM: Oh, thank you, Ashley.
Thank you, D&D Beyond.
Matt, back to you.
ASHLEY: I can't wait to listen to that song.
MATT: It's going up on Spotify next week.
SAM: Can someone can throw some instruments under it?
MATT: Yeah.
Yeah, one of you Critters out there,
mix your own version of Ashley Johnson's D&D Beyond.
ASHLEY: No, don't you do it.
We don't need it.
TRAVIS: No, no.
MATT: If I have to suffer through Sam's shirts every week.
ASHLEY: Fair enough.
MATT: I'm dragging you with me.
Thank you, D&D Beyond, for your fantastic support.
And super excited for the Wildemount Campaign Guide,
The Explorer's Guide to Wildemount comes out in,
like, less than two weeks.
That's insane.
So excited for you guys to check it out.
It's a lot of hard work from
a lot of great people and myself.
I'm really proud of it.
And hope you guys enjoy it.
So if you haven't pre-ordered it yet,
you can still, or buy it when it comes out
at your friendly local game store.
Couple other announcements.
(laughs)
There you go.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Big thanks to all the fantastic Critters
that came out to C2E2.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: As well as our live show last Thursday.
Thank you for your patience,
as there were issues with the ticketing system
and other things that ended up causing this huge delay.
So thank you so much for your patience
in very, very harsh weather. That sucked.
And we are so glad that you guys made it
and it was a great show.
Thank you for attending it,
and thank you guys for watching it.
TRAVIS: The energy was so good.
MATT: I know.
LAURA: It was so much fun.
MATT: I do want to say, though,
our hearts, here at Critical Role,
do go out to everyone in Nashville who've suffered
and been devastated by these tornadoes recently.
If you're able to, please consider donating
to any of the reputable nonprofit organizations
that are working to help provide aid
for the people in need
and provide assistance in those areas.
We like the Community Foundation of Middle Tennessee,
so you can make a donation, if you'd like to there,
at cfmt.org.
But do your research and find the right folks to donate to.
But thank you for helping out.
Laura, you have an announcement.
LAURA: I do!
SAM: Balls, balls, balls.
LAURA: No, there's a couple good ones in here.
There's my announcement. Um, no.
You guys might have noticed, in the store, right now.
We got some shirts available.
We got-- okay, wait, hold on.
TALIESIN: I'm waiting. I'm not going to do anything.
LAURA: The US one first.
This is by Bryan Weiss. He's done our other shirts for us.
(cheering)
This is in Zemnian and in Common!
What does it say, Caleb?
LIAM: Well, it says--
woo-szuh bah!
MARISHA: Ooh!
TRAVIS: Oh!
LIAM: Zuhause liegt im Herzen.
Which is a close approximation
of "home is where the heart is."
(awwing)
LAURA: Yeah, so this was--
LIAM: On fire.
LAURA: -- conceptualized by Liam O'Brien,
which is pretty freaking cool.
And then for our special UK shoppers,
we've got another one.
It's the same shirt, but it's-- it's different color.
ALL: (oohing and aahing)
SAM: It looks British.
LAURA: Doesn't it?
This one's got an accent.
MATT: Like it has history.
SAM: Uh-huh. Yep.
It's a little bit smarter than the other one.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Those are our shirts and that are available.
We also have, which something I've been wanting to have
for a very long time,
are some stickers.
SAM: We got stickers!
LAURA: We got vinyl stickers by Jenny Park.
They're the same-- oh!
(laughter)
I'm opening them, so this are mine now.
So we got our Mighty Nein logo,
and we got all of the chibi people!
(cheering)
SAM: What can you stick them on, Laura?
LAURA: You can stick them on anything!
ASHLEY: Could I stick it on my water bottle?
LAURA: You could definitely stick it on your water bottle.
SAM: Right now?
LAURA: Sure.
They're vinyl.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I'm going to die.
SAM: That's the slogan.
TALIESIN: "They're vinyl!"
TRAVIS: Ding!
LAURA: So yeah. Go look at store.
MATT: Thank you, Laura.
LAURA: You're welcome.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: Oh, that's so cute!
TRAVIS: Which one'd you pick?
TALIESIN: Clay.
SAM: Aww.
LAURA: Aw, I was going to pick my own character.
MATT: It's going to be a shame when I kill him.
SAM: No, no that's--
TRAVIS: What'd you say?!
MATT: I didn't say anything.
TALIESIN: No.
Ah!
MATT: Anyway, I believe that's the end of our announcements.
So let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of
Critical Role.
(growls)
(water bubbles)
(thunder rumbling)
(explosion booming)
♪ Role, Critical Role ♪
♪ Critical Role ♪
♪ Mighty Nein ♪
♪ Roll the dice ♪
♪ The adventure begins ♪
♪ They were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends ♪
♪ And the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from the flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware 'cause you're about to be dead ♪
♪ They got magic and flair ♪
♪ They got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there ♪
♪ There's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands, ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice ♪
♪ (Roll the dice) Critical Role ♪
♪ Ooh, aah ♪
♪ Can you answer the call ♪
♪ Diggin' deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn, (your turn, your turn) ♪
♪ To roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
MATT: Wow.
TALIESIN: Been holding onto that for a while.
MATT: Welcome back.
So last we left off.
The Mighty Nein had returned to Nicodranas
to prepare their travel
towards the negotiation between the Kryn Dynasty
and Dwendalian Empire.
Upon arriving and settling yourselves,
you, one, discovered that on one of the vessels which
was built by and belongs to the Cerberus Assembly,
that a few members were present,
as well as a new figure that you had not encountered before.
After a bit of monkey espionage,
you revealed this individual to be
Essek in disguise,
who revealed to have some connection
with the Cerberus Assembly.
As the intrigue continued to spread,
you completed
the transmogrification spell on Nott,
with the curse lifted and restored Veth Brenatto
as she was always meant to be.
After a bit of shopping, you also were invited to a party
at the local Marquis' estate.
And upon attending, you convinced Marion Lavorre
to go and perform.
Through series of spells,
Beau had a very interesting altered experience.
Some fancy dress that was purchased
and designed by Caduceus and Jester.
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: And upon realizing that Essek,
within the illusory form,
was attempting to escape when pressured at the party.
You managed to subdue him
and escort him to your ship at the docks.
There, an interrogation led you to some revelations,
some emotions, and where we left off
a bit of a climactic conversation
continues.
So as now all of you there, dressed to the nines,
in the shadowed gun deck of--
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Neins!
(laughter)
MATT: -- gun deck of Balleater,
Essek sits upon the crate
as you all surround an inquiry.
You had just made an invitation to The Mighty Nein,
to Essek as a thank you.
Essek, at this point, looks up to you,
Veth, and kind of,
"(chuckles) (sighs)"
SAM: Oh, also, I'm the goblin from before.
MATT: "Right! No--
"I didn't-- I assume that it worked, then, yes?"
LIAM: Yeah, we removed the impediment
that we discussed with you, yeah.
MATT: "I gathered."
LAURA: Yeah, we broke my mom's tub doing-- (gasps)
Mama!
I got to go, I got to go, I got to go!
I run out of the room.
MATT: Okay.
"Very well, it is--"
TRAVIS: I'll go, I'll chase after her.
MATT: "All right."
TALIESIN: Is this is the thing we're doing, or--?
SAM: No, no, no. This is important; we should stay here.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: "I appreciate what you're saying,
"and I'm thankful that you have a modicum of faith in me,
"undeserving as that might be.
"Um.
"It is in that interest
"that I just want to warn you about getting too close.
"I'm tied,
"to a lot of dangerous individuals
"and teeter in the shadows at the crux
"of all of this conflict
"intentional as it may not have been.
"I would never want to put you in a situation,
"or put myself in a situation
"where I would have to choose between myself
"and the rest of you."
LIAM: Why don't you talk us through
the next few days and weeks?
MATT: "Well,
"they currently exist
"in a delicate balance with the Cerberus Assembly,
"for either could reveal this charade,
"to the detriment of the other.
"There is respect, at least, I believe
"on an intellectual level.
"But I am but one working across from many.
"I think my utility with the Assembly,
"continuing to cover up with this endeavor
"from the inside of the Dynasty,
"as well as my insights into their dunamantic interests,
"make me too valuable at the moment to be
"buried.
"But doesn't mean that I can stop being paranoid,
"nor can I assume that my presence to you
"doesn't put you in continuous danger, either.
"So,
"in time, I hope this will pass.
"But for now, we will--
"I will continue to escort
"a handful of Assembly members
"to this negotiation,
"and if you are indeed coming with your ship as well,
"we will be nearby.
"We'll oversee the
"transference of the beacon to the Dynasty,
"as well as the trade of the prisoners.
"Some discussions and agreements will hopefully come to bear
"and to bring the outer conflict,
"the public conflict to an end.
"After which,
"we stay quiet.
"I go back to the Dynasty.
"The Assembly returns to their research,
"and we continue as if none of this had happened.
SAM: Well,
it's hard to hard to forecast out
past the next few days.
But, I mean, let's not kid ourselves, that at some point
someone is going to have to pay
for some of the damage that has been done.
MATT: "I admire your sense of heroism,
"but history is full of people
"who have not paid for their sins."
MARISHA: Full of a lot of people who have.
MATT: "Some."
TALIESIN: Or some who've paid for others.
SAM: And while we feel a kinship towards you,
and apparently you towards us,
unless you're lying about that,
there's nothing necessarily stopping us
from enacting justice on other folks
who have been involved in this scheme.
MATT: "I am not going to get in the way
"of any perceived vengeances.
"Just know that,
"it is safest that I not involve myself in particular
"with such endeavors."
SAM: Of course.
It might help us, though, if we knew
if there were any members of the Cerberus Assembly
or anyone that you are particularly beholden to
or allied with, that we should
steer clear of, or be especially mindful of.
MATT: "The Martinet is extremely intelligent
"and very resourceful.
"So the less,
"that can be revealed to him
"the safest we all are.
"Lady Vess DeRogna is
"clever in her own way.
"And I am curious to what her involvement
"is to the Biting North, in particular.
"That may or may not be involved in this, but
"I trust her less than most, I think."
LIAM: Are you prepared for all of this
to go sideways on you?
MATT: "Always.
"I have been the three years
"since we began this plot."
LIAM: I feel conflicted about this,
but would like to see even a temporary end to conflict.
MATT: "Well, outwardly."
MARISHA: Why do you keep saying that?
What does that mean?
MATT: "I would hope that in your
studies within the Cobalt Soul,
"you understand that conflict is perpetual."
MARISHA: I do.
I'm just curious what your brand is.
LIAM: Well, he has acknowledged that they are keeping
one of these artifacts in the Empire,
and they're not doing it for posterity's sake.
MATT: "I mean, there has been a
shadow war between the Dynasty
"and the Empire for decades.
"This is just the first time that it's brimmed out,
"of the control of those that waged it."
TALIESIN: And when the Dynasty finds out
that there's another artifact--
MATT: "They cannot."
TALIESIN: When they find out.
MATT: "Then let's hope we are far away
"and well protected when it happens."
TALIESIN: Let's hope it takes a very long time,
or that it make its way home without anyone
ever having to admit it was gone in the first place.
LIAM: Doesn't seem like you have a choice here.
You seem fairly well painted into a corner.
MATT: "So it would seem.
"But I've gotten this far by
"leaning into my resources.
"I know I can protect myself.
"I don't think I can protect all of you.
"And that is why I'm worried."
LIAM: Well, I would just hope
that if things go pear-shaped on us,
counter to how you hope and believe things will go,
if your life is in danger and our lives as well,
that you are willing to work with your friends,
to survive it.
MATT: "To survive it, yes."
LIAM: Make no mistake.
We do not trust you.
MATT: "Good.
"That'll help you survive."
LIAM: Doesn't mean we don't hope for you.
It's a tricky balance, Essek.
MATT: "Isn't everything?
"(sighs)
"Even if this is successful,
"and the war is declared over,
"that doesn't mean everything goes back to normal.
"The tangled espionage between both sides of this
"has gone on for long and will continue to go.
"The Augen Trust is deeply ingrained, as is the Lens.
"We just have to be careful who we tell anything to.
"My recommendation is nothing to anyone."
SAM: Well, if there's anything that we are adept at,
it's being careful
and keeping information close to the vest.
TALIESIN: (chuckles)
Oh.
MATT: "We are in so much trouble."
TALIESIN: That was serious.
LIAM: And there's no one else,
no one else has your ear in this way?
MATT: "No."
LIAM: No.
TALIESIN: Please try and keep us informed.
MATT: "Of course.
"To the best of my ability."
TALIESIN: Of course.
MATT: "Once again, for whatever it's worth, I am sorry."
TALIESIN: Apology accepted, at least from here.
MARISHA: He doesn't speak for all of us.
TALIESIN: I definitely do not.
MARISHA: Why don't you get some rest, Essek?
MATT: "You do the same.
"The night is still young. I would hate for you to
"waste such a polished presentation."
He sits up off his crate and,
glides back to his faint hover.
"Good night."
His illusion once more transitions
to the blond elven figure
that he's been masquerading as since his arrival
in Nicodranas.
He waits tensely to make sure that
he can leave.
LIAM: If you truly hope for a second chance, truly,
step very carefully with us.
SAM: Glide.
MATT: Then he just leaves.
SAM: Well, that's a pickle.
MARISHA: What the fuck.
TALIESIN: Is it?
MATT: Make a history check.
MARISHA: Oh. Okay.
LAURA and MARISHA: Eh-ooh-ahh.
MARISHA: 23.
MATT: Okay.
You did hear him mention the Augen Trust and the Lens.
SAM: He said the Lens. What is that?
MARISHA: Did you say the Og--?
MATT: The Augen Trust.
Which you know is-- from-- because there's been a lot of--
they're competitive force with the Cobalt Soul
in the sense they are the crown's spy network.
TRAVIS: Augen Trust.
MARISHA: On the Dy-- on the--
MATT and MARISHA: On the Empire side.
MATT: And it's often that the Cobalt Soul
and Augen Trust butt the heads
and sometimes find themselves in similar spaces
going for similar information for different reasons.
And are very competitive and tense about
achieving their own unique means.
SAM: So the Cobalt Soul is an independent organization?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Not affiliated with any--
SAM: Wow, I thought it was, like, loosely Empire.
MATT: In the sense that it's
an approved religious institution
within the Empire that works alongside, in some ways,
but is very much-- presents itself as a subtle
check and balance to the Empire and the Empire does not
necessarily appreciate that,
and there's pushback on both sides
in this really strange in-between space.
TALIESIN: They're international, too, as well, the Cobalt.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: And the Lens?
MATT: The Lens is the
Bright Queen's spy network in the Dynasty.
TALIESIN: That's a good name.
MATT: And so, his talk of shadow wars and espionage.
In your mind, you immediately begin to put together that
this is--
MARISHA: What he was talking about.
MATT: Yeah, this is what he was referring to.
MARISHA: Cold War all the time.
MATT: At least in recent times.
MARISHA: Interesting.
Okay.
LIAM: Well, nothing changes if everybody's on the up and up.
TALIESIN: I think, if anything, this
illuminates a bunch of mysteries pretty thoroughly.
It's, on a certain level, the best this
could have possibly worked out.
We now know why they have had two,
we now know what they were hiding.
This is--
This feels helpful.
LIAM: Well, it's a moment in time.
The Empire is obviously trying to leverage
their possession for a later day.
An end to killing now is better
than no end to the killing.
TALIESIN: Always.
LIAM: But, as far as this meeting goes,
I will happily be mistaken,
but I find it hard to believe
the Martinet and his friends
are genuine in their intentions.
SAM: Of course not.
LIAM: I still fear for the artifact they are returning.
The beacon, I worry that they have tampered
with it somehow.
SAM: Well, we need to be close to the action
when this meeting takes place.
Now more than ever.
MARISHA: We should probably discuss that,
make a little bit of a plan,
that we definitely will not follow.
SAM: Sure, that's what we do.
But if all goes well,
and there's a temporary truce or whatever,
then maybe afterwards, we can use this information to
bring some folks on the Empire side to justice.
TALIESIN: I'm not on board for that.
SAM: What?
TALIESIN: I'm not interested in--
I don't understand what it's for.
SAM: Well, they've done horrible, evil things
that killed thousands of people.
TALIESIN: What if, in our search for punishment,
we create more horrible, evil things?
What if we reignite the war?
LIAM: I think that is very likely, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: I will not stand by and let someone's
desire to feel better get in the way and just--
SAM: You can stand by and--
TALIESIN: -- and end more lives.
SAM: You can just watch bad people get away with it?
TALIESIN: They did what they did.
All we can do-- the best, I think,
we can do is just stop it.
I don't--
I don't see the sense in
risking other people.
If there's a way to do it,
if there's a way to do it that's safe,
that maintains the peace,
certainly, but I don't see that.
MARISHA: Maybe there is a way.
TALIESIN: I mean, you're smarter than I am.
Do you see a way of enacting vengeance or justice
or whatever you want to call it,
that will make the dead feel better?
Will make the living feel better?
Will create more broken lives?
I just don't see what it's for.
I'm happy to learn, but
it just sounds like more chaos.
MARISHA: Sometimes justice can bring closure, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: The only thing I've ever found that brings closure
is when everyone's finally in the ground.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
TALIESIN: From my experience.
LIAM: We have no choice but to see this meeting through.
TALIESIN: Of course.
MARISHA: Yasha, you spent time, most of your life
in the Dynasty.
What do you think?
Both sides are guilty here, deeply.
ASHLEY: Yeah, both sides are guilty.
I think I just had a different experience with it.
You know, I mean, my tribe, we floated across the lands
without any connection to either side.
I don't quite know where I stand on this,
to be honest.
MARISHA: Yeah, me neither.
And that's really weird for me.
TALIESIN: I feel no obligation to the guilty,
but I do feel it to the innocent.
SAM: I mean, maybe it's because
I have a personal connection here,
but my husband was kidnapped and imprisoned
partially due to this
by Essek's people.
I'd love to get him some some payback for that.
TALIESIN: Does your husband want payback?
SAM: I don't want to speak for him, but
yes!
(laughter)
MARISHA: There might be a way to do this
slowly and over time,
but not now.
Not any time soon.
LIAM: I agree. I think if we blow this wide open now--
and I fault our country far more heavily
than the Dynasty--
but if we try to grasp justice wildly now,
as you say, Caduceus,
it will spark the conflict and more people will die.
I think
we try to bring this day through,
and then find a way to surgically remove
the problem after the fact,
rather than just blasting it wide open.
MARISHA: No, that would be really dumb.
TALIESIN: Be gentle in your motives, is all I ask.
Always--
It's always worth thinking about what you really want.
It's the only thing that really matters.
MARISHA: This is a--
LIAM: I want
the murders removed from power in my country.
TALIESIN: Why?
Really, why?
LIAM: Because I'm tired of children being thrown on pyre.
TALIESIN: That's what you really don't want.
That's what you want, though.
You want no more children on the pyre.
Always remember that.
You don't want to punish the people who made you.
You want to make sure that no one else makes you.
You'll get there quicker.
LIAM: I don't know, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Me neither.
I will try and help.
No more children.
That I can get behind.
ASHLEY: I can get behind that as well.
MARISHA: Speaking of children,
wonder if Jester's found her mom yet.
SAM: I'm sure she has. Dissolve to--
(scene change noises)
MARISHA: Thank you.
LAURA: (panting) Are we back to the house yet?
MATT: After rushing through the night streets of Nicodranas,
the distant sound of high tide waves crashing on the shore
getting more and more distant
as you pass through the Opal Archways,
you come to the soft, distant sound of music.
TRAVIS: (panting) Slow down!
Slow down, this hat has incredible wind drag.
(laughter)
LAURA: Just take it off already. Just take the hat off!
TRAVIS: But you bought this for me!
LAURA: Fjord. Look at me.
TRAVIS: What?
LAURA: It was a joke.
LAURA: The hat was a joke.
TRAVIS: It can't be.
I've gotten so many compliments on it tonight.
It's part of my look.
LAURA: If you like it, embrace it, but I got it as a joke.
TRAVIS: Fuck this hat!
SAM: (cat yowling)
MATT: Killed Frumpkin.
LAURA: Do we her singing still?
MATT: No.
LAURA: Fuck.
MATT: You rush up to the gates and the guards are there.
You can see that there's still people in the courtyard
that are currently still talking amongst themselves.
There's soft music playing.
The guards step aside and let you enter the courtyard.
You quickly glance across the entire crew
and you do notice your mother is currently surrounded
by a group about six or seven people.
There's laughter and she's talking,
she has a wine flute in her hand,
and immediately she locks eyes
with you across the way and goes,
"Jester! I was wondering where you went."
LAURA: I got pulled away for a conversation,
but you sounded beautiful, Mama.
MATT: "Thank you very much."
LAURA: You're occupied.
Do you want to continue?
MATT: "Honestly, this has been very nice.
"I'm missing the comfort of my own room.
"But thank you, everyone.
"It has been a pleasure. To the Marquis,"
and she gives a nod.
LAURA: If you enjoyed her company,
come and see her at the Lavish Chateau.
She appears there (mumbling) every other night, still?
I don't remember. You should check it out!
MATT: "Thank you, Jester."
LAURA: Of course.
MATT: She turns and a few people wave
and she hands her glass over to one of the guards
who's like, "I don't know what to do with this,"
then he just holds it.
And strolls out toward the edge of the gate,
takes a breath, puts her arm around yours,
and then pushes into the night back towards the Chateau.
LAURA: Fjord, walk on the other side of her, it's helpful.
TRAVIS: Oh, yes. Mm-hmm.
MATT: "Thank you so much.
"(sighs)
"Well, that was very exhilarating."
LAURA: I'm very proud of you.
MATT: "Thank you."
LAURA: Everyone was so enthralled.
MATT: "Yeah.
"(laughs)
"But that's what I do.
"Thank you for helping me with that."
LAURA: Of course. I'm sorry we had
to step away for a moment.
MATT: "I'm sure you had your reasons.
"Thank you for your help."
TRAVIS: Of course. Beau and I were able to stay
for a bit more of your performance before
the
night really kicked into a different gear.
It was thrilling, though,
I can see where Jester gets all of her exuberance
and personality. It was quite amazing.
MATT: "Thank you very much.
"What happened to hat?"
TRAVIS: You know, it was such a hit, someone just
up and snatched that bitch in the middle of the party.
MATT: "That is unfortunate!"
TRAVIS: I agree!
It was such--
MATT: "I could have another one made for you."
TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Oh, could you?
(laughter)
MATT: "I'll pull some strings."
LAURA: Yes, and then you'll have to
wear it all the time, Fjord,
because it will be a gift from Mama.
TRAVIS: (drawn out) Uh!
All right, I would love that.
MATT: "I...
"can see your discomfort.
"Do not worry. It's okay."
TRAVIS: Oh, no, I--
LAURA: Just give in, Fjord, just it's okay. Don't do it.
TRAVIS: I-- don't do it or do it?
LAURA: Don't do it!
TRAVIS: Fuck, what?
Um. No.
LAURA: Let what you want to be known to the world.
TRAVIS: I really don't wear a hat very well, it's not--
LAURA: Well, that's not true. You look fabulous in it.
TRAVIS: Fucking pick one.
Which one is it, am I wearing it or not?
LAURA: You aren't going to wear it.
TRAVIS: I don't wear hats--
LAURA: Unless you really want to.
I mean, I don't want to--
TRAVIS: I'll take the hat.
LAURA: (gasps)
TRAVIS: Rush delivery.
MATT: "So be it."
(chuckling)
You guys head back to the Chateau,
escort her back to her room.
It's pretty late now in the evening.
LIAM: Was that conversation too real?
MATT: -- but she goes ahead and-- (laughs)
Kisses you good night.
"Thank you again.
"I am, as Jester would say,
"just pooped."
SAM and LAURA: Piew-ped.
MATT "Piew-ped.
"Good night.
LAURA: Good night, Mama.
MATT: She closes the door.
LAURA: Thank you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: You're welcome. She's a charming woman.
I can see why she has all the suitors
and attention everywhere.
LAURA: Everyone really loves her.
Yeah.
TRAVIS: I can't feel my hamstrings.
I think I pulled something as we running.
LAURA: We can walk much slower back.
TRAVIS: Do you mind?
LAURA: Not at all.
TRAVIS: This coat does not breathe.
It's lovely, but fuck.
LAURA: I wonder what they all decided.
TRAVIS: Who? Oh, yes!
Should we head back to the docks?
LAURA: I mean, probably.
I guess I can send a message
to everyone, see where they are now.
TRAVIS: It's so strange. When the message
doesn't come from you,
it's very alienating.
I think everyone's just used to hearing you send messages.
Caleb's sent me one, it
sent this night down a whole other rabbit trail.
LAURA: Oh, really?
TRAVIS: Yep.
LAURA: Yeah, you and Beau seemed a little--
TRAVIS: Beau was tripping balls!
There was all sorts of things.
She was swinging at stuff that wasn't there.
LAURA: Really?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we unmasked, like, a dragonborn fellow.
I turned around and he just, poof! He was gone.
LAURA: What?!
TRAVIS: I know!
LAURA: What the heck was going on?
TRAVIS: I don't know.
LAURA: I was just trying to talk to Essek,
and then all this hell broke loose.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we thought we'd keep an eye on the room
and then we thought we were, like,
doing the real investigative digging.
It turns out, nope, we're just fucking things up.
LAURA: I was going to him and then start talking
about how much I liked Essek and then all of a sudden,
like, Nott had paralyzed him or something?
I don't remember, it was weird.
TRAVIS: Nott paralyzed Essek?
LAURA: I think so.
TRAVIS: That's sounds about right.
LAURA: Then Caleb,
you know, put him in chains, so.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Should we get that fellow down from the balcony
that was harassing your mother?
LAURA: Oh.
I should have told Mama about that.
TRAVIS: I mean, there's no way they could trace that
back to you, though.
LAURA: Oh, well.
I'm pretty sure he saw it was me,
and I'm pretty sure the spell's probably worn off by now.
And I'm pretty sure it's exactly what I did before.
So yeah, he's going to be pretty pissed.
TRAVIS: I think we actually went up there
and tried to scare him a little bit,
so maybe he'll keep his mouth shut.
LAURA: Oh, good.
MATT: And the good news is--
no, it's worn off.
LIAM: No, no good news.
MATT: Never mind, no good news.
LAURA: Yeah, good.
TRAVIS: Good.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: You look lovely this evening.
LAURA: Oh, thank you.
TRAVIS: You did a good job.
We should make this our new vibe.
LAURA: Our new look? We should be
in formal wear all the time.
TRAVIS: I don't know, I think people like,
actually paid us respect.
LAURA: Well, you do look quite dashing;
you look like a captain.
TRAVIS: Thank you, without the hat?
LAURA: Without the hat.
TRAVIS: Yeah, because I went up
to Captain Deremi, guess what?
No fucking hat.
LAURA: Well, maybe a smaller hat. That one was really big.
TRAVIS: He's a dwarf, he didn't have a hat.
LAURA: You don't have--
LAURA and TRAVIS: (random interrupting sounds)
LAURA: Whatever.
TRAVIS: (chicken cluck)
(laughter)
LAURA: Hold on, I'm going to send a message.
Hey everyone, are you still at the docks?
Or are you coming back to the Chateau,
or where should we meet you?
Is (whispers) Essek
(normal volume) still around
or what's going on?
SAM: Who did you send that to?
MATT: Who did you say that to?
LAURA: Veth.
SAM: Oh! Uh! Um!
Essek gone.
LAURA: She screamed a couple times. Essek is gone.
SAM: Us en route
to
Chateau.
LAURA: She's really bad at this.
SAM: Stopping for quick bite.
LAURA: Oh!
SAM: Tell if you need us pick up anything.
Fire bad.
(laughter)
LAURA: Yeah, she suggested before that I use less words
and make more ideas present,
but it was very confusing when she just did it.
So, yeah.
I think they're going to get some dinner or something.
But she didn't say where.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. I mean, do we want to--
can you send another one?
LAURA: (sighs)
As long as we go to sleep.
TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, we can just grab a bite.
LAURA: Yeah, I mean, they're on their way back,
we might as well just
go get something. Maybe we'll find them there.
TRAVIS: Do you have a favorite spot around here?
LAURA: I didn't really go out very much for food.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's right, you hid.
LAURA: Well.
TRAVIS: We could order in.
LAURA: Yeah, they've got wonderful food downstairs.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay, all right, we're going to
go downstairs and eat at the Chateau.
MATT: All right, so you guys have a Chateau dinner.
The rest of you guys.
What are you doing?
SAM: We're walking back.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: (plucked bass notes)
MATT: So you're picking up a snack
on the way? Sure.
TRAVIS, ASHLEY, and TALIESIN: (plucked bass notes)
SAM: Yeah!
MATT: All right.
SAM: We're going to a herring stand.
MATT: All right, the fish market, real popular recently.
SAM: Uh-huh.
MATT: Okay.
You guys come back to the Chateau
and you catch up as Jester and Fjord are eating,
finishing up their meal down within the main area,
which is mostly empty now.
SAM: Is it that candlelit, is it?
Are we walking in on anything?
LAURA: We're just sitting at a table, having some food.
TRAVIS: Do you want some ice cream?
SAM: (gasps)
Oh, hi.
LAURA: They've got really got the ice cream here.
How did it go?
SAM: So good.
TALIESIN: I mean, all things considered.
LIAM: It's pretty delicate, actually.
We let him go.
TRAVIS: Oh.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Alive?
LIAM: For now.
LAURA: Well yeah, he's--
TRAVIS: I'm just--
LAURA: Yeah, okay.
LIAM: (slopping on the ground)
TRAVIS: (groaning)
TALIESIN: Out to sea.
Be free.
(laughter)
SAM: We're going to keep our eye on him.
We're going to make sure that this truce thing happens,
and then afterwards, there's a bit of an internal debate
about whether we are going to go on a
on the trail of blood and redemption and justice,
or if we are going to just simply turn a blind eye
to all of the wrongs
that have been committed in the last few years,
or somewhere in between.
At the end, there was sort of floated an idea
that we would become an elite ninja force
that would go in and just very quietly kill those
or at least capture those who were responsible
without causing any other ripples in the society.
LAURA: I like being a task force. Let's be a task force.
TRAVIS: Whose idea was the ninja force?
MARISHA: That was (stuttering).
SAM: That was Caleb's. I think it was Caleb.
LAURA: Caleb, you're so smart.
That sounds like so much fun.
TRAVIS: You have access to ninja training?
LAURA: I wonder-- you know what,
I could probably get some costumes made for us.
SAM: Bob bob!
TALIESIN: I feel like both sides of that debate
were a little more nuanced, but yeah, it's kind of--
LIAM: I think we clearly need
to let off a little bit of steam.
This has been a very long day.
TALIESIN: Very long day.
TRAVIS: Can I ask: Did you believe him when you let him go?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: He seems like he has
a lot to lose and a lot at stake.
TALIESIN: Could have had a better lie.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: All right, that's good enough for me.
LAURA: I'm going to send the message to Essek.
MATT: Mmkay.
SAM: Now, you don't need verbs or anything.
You can just cut right through to the nouns.
LAURA: Your message was terrible.
SAM: You understood what I said!
LAURA: Barely! It took a lot of thought.
It's much better to just talk to them.
LIAM: Just use vowels.
LAURA and TRAVIS: Ow-ooh. Ow-ooh-ow.
SAM: Ah-ooh.
LAURA: Um!
Hi, how are you feeling?
Do you feel guilty or are you happy?
Are you just crying in your room right now?
We're thinking about you!
MATT: A brief pause before the response comes.
"I am just
"contemplating what is to come.
"I appreciate what silver of trust
"allowed me to leave.
"It's not forgotten."
That's it.
LAURA: He said he's just sitting there,
thinking about you kissing him, Caleb.
It's all he said. He's just like, "Caleb kissed me."
LIAM: Sure, that checks out.
TALIESIN: No, it's not what he said.
LIAM: The reality is we don't trust him, no.
And redemption for him is a long shot at best, but...
TALIESIN: True.
LIAM: I mean, you held a sword to my neck once upon a time.
TRAVIS: That's true.
LIAM: I'm not saying ignore what he's done, but
he has a great many more footsteps to take if he
indeed wishes to make up for what he has done.
It's very unlikely.
TRAVIS: He'd have to earn it, one step at a time.
TALIESIN: One step at a time.
MARISHA: Glide.
SAM: One glide at a time.
TALIESIN: One, that's-- wow. I hadn't even really.
LIAM: It's really just one--
MARISHA: It's just, like, a waft.
TRAVIS: He could just be treadmilling
under that shit, you don't know.
Just to keep track of where he's going.
SAM: (quick footsteps)
TRAVIS: Yeah, otherwise his legs would just atrophy, right?
LAURA: That's true, they would.
Maybe he does a lot of squats
when nobody's around.
SAM: When he's at home? Yeah.
TALIESIN: Maybe he's just taller and it's just--
TRAVIS: Air squats?
SAM: Air squats?
Good one.
LIAM: And--
SAM: I didn't know you knew what that was!
TRAVIS: What?
SAM: An air squat, 'cause it's
clear that you've ever done one.
LIAM: What is an air squat?
SAM: Oh it's...
I don't actually know.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I was really invested in...
SAM: I don't know. Maybe you jump at the end? I don't know.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Those are jump squats.
LIAM: Also truth be told, obviously we do not trust him,
but we know more now than we did before
and we can potentially use the man.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: This is true.
TRAVIS: Did it change your opinion
of what we're supposed to do:
head out to sea or stay?
MARISHA: We head out to sea.
Plan stays the same.
If any justice is going to come from this,
it's going to be a long game.
And one that I don't think we want to act upon
in the weeks before or after the trade. Not for a bit.
LIAM: They were all just looking for an excuse
to throw this piece out the window.
LAURA: Yeah, regardless, I mean,
right now they are actually talking about peace.
That's pretty wonderful.
MARISHA: Sort of peace.
Tenuous peace.
SAM: Truce.
LAURA: A truce.
TRAVIS: Greater effect peace.
MARISHA: Peace on the outside.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Less people getting killed, peace.
LIAM: They're obviously using the situation,
but maybe we can use them in return.
Long game, like you say.
MARISHA: Long game.
SAM: When do they depart again? Is it imminent
or do we have a few--
MATT: It's a couple days.
TRAVIS: Couple days?
SAM: Couple days.
Well, should we start thinking about
any fortifications
to the Balleater or any sort of, I don't know,
do we need to be prepared?
LAURA: Oh my gosh,
are they going to bust out in a battle or something?
Is somebody, like, lying?
SAM: So many things could happen.
LAURA: Oh, man.
TRAVIS: We actually do have
a fair amount of canon on the ship.
I just don't know how much we could have
without really reducing the speed.
TALIESIN: I think, more than anything,
we're going to be important to be there.
We're all a lot to reckon with.
Any one of us in a fray.
TRAVIS: And a fracas!
TALIESIN: Oh, and a fracas. Yeah.
TRAVIS: Sorry, that party has got me amped.
TALIESIN: That was a pretty good party.
TRAVIS: Still got the ringing in my ears.
TALIESIN: How're you holding up, Beau?
MARISHA: Oh, great.
That was awesome.
TALIESIN: You're going to feel a little weird
in a couple days, just--
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: Nothing, just drink some--
drink some juice.
Try to lay off the ale a little bit and get some sleep
if you're feeling a little low.
You'll be okay.
LIAM: Take an off day.
TALIESIN: Yeah, just take it easy.
There you go.
LAURA: Everybody save their outfits
because you all look really wonderful. Okay?
SAM: Did you say save your--?
LAURA: Yeah, don't leave them here.
Take them with us in case we want
to dress up some other time.
LIAM: If you prefer, I could--
TALIESIN: You look good.
ASHLEY: Thanks.
LIAM: And then I pull out that little piece of amber.
I could store them in here for safekeeping,
so they do not get ruined.
LAURA: That's wonderful, yeah.
SAM: What's that do?
LIAM: Isn't it obvious?
SAM: No.
LIAM: It holds things.
TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, of course. Amber of holding.
ASHLEY: How much can you put in there?
LIAM: A good bit.
I could put you in it if you were dead.
LAURA: Oh, if we were dead.
ASHLEY: If I was dead.
LAURA: If we were alive...
ASHLEY: Can I go in there now?
LIAM: Yes, but then you would be dead.
TRAVIS: Instantly or, like, would you have a couple seconds?
LIAM: Pretty quick.
MARISHA: Would you, like, suffocate?
How does it work? Is it, like, a vacuum?
LAURA: Do you explode?
MARISHA: Yeah, does it just crush your eyeballs?
LIAM: You go somewhere else and there is no air.
LAURA: Oh, so as long as you can
hold your breath, you're fine.
TRAVIS: Do it now. Do it to Yasha. Do it right now.
TALIESIN: Yeah I-- hmm.
TRAVIS: Is it cold, is it hot?
LIAM: I think maybe stick to pit fights
where you let yourself get wailed upon
and maybe don't jump in.
TRAVIS: This is like Event Horizon.
Go through the portal. She'll
come right back. It'll be fine.
TALIESIN: This is like Flatliners.
It's not like Event Horizon.
TRAVIS: Hey no. Both of those things
ended up terribly for the people.
LIAM: Yeah, The Long Jump.
It's longer then you think.
Longer than you think!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: You have a piece of amber that holds stuff?
LIAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: That's great.
LIAM: I like to, you know, I--
ASHLEY: How do you get stuff out?
You just stick your hand in it or something?
TALIESIN: Where would you--?
LAURA: Do you have to cast the spell to bamf it out again?
SAM: What do you call it?
Do you call it Widogast's Plane? Is that what you call it?
LIAM: I call it Widogast's--
I just call it the Vault of Amber.
LAURA: But it's Widogast's Vault of Amber.
SAM: Widogast's Vault of Amber.
That sounds really catchy.
LAURA: That does sound catchy.
TRAVIS: W-V-O-A.
LIAM: I mean, only if you were to put into some sort of
player's handbook or something.
SAM: Something that would last forever
and sort of immortalize your name
in canon forever.
TALIESIN: Let's not get ridiculous.
TRAVIS: Like a player? Like "play-ah."
LIAM: Like you, Fjord, like you.
MARISHA: You do have a very forward
sense of branding, Caleb.
SAM: Yeah.
I could see what that would be.
LIAM: Do I really? I'm not using my actual name.
TRAVIS: You know what a great friend might do?
(laughter)
LAURA: Yeah, let's put it in your amber.
TALIESIN: I actually, I would love to see how things
come in and out of it, just in case you're--
ASHLEY: What happens if I put my finger in and out?
LIAM: You would have four fingers.
ASHLEY: It would just fall off.
LAURA: It would, like, clamp into her finger and--?
LIAM: I mean, there's only one way to find out.
TRAVIS: Does it have teeth?
LIAM: Her finger?
(snorting)
ASHLEY: You better believe they have teeth.
(laughter)
LIAM: Where are we?
LAURA: Let's go to sleep.
MATT: You guys are in the Chateau.
I'm just waiting for you guys to finish--
LIAM: He starts putting out the ring of--
LAURA: We're in our clothes now. What,
are we all just going to get naked
right now in the middle of the bar?
LIAM: She was curious. She wanted to lose a finger.
SAM: I wouldn't mind. I have a wonderful body now.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Show us how it works. Here's an ascot.
LIAM: An asker? Oh, you mean an ascot.
TALIESIN: Just show us how it works.
LIAM: All right, so he puts out the five pieces of amber,
but it takes a while, so you strip naked, I guess,
while I cast some mumbo jumbo and...
the ascot goes (sucking sound). And it's gone.
TALIESIN: How do you get it back?
LIAM: Uh...
TRAVIS: Oops.
LIAM: Una.
LAURA: What did he say?
TRAVIS: Unagi.
MARISHA: Uno.
LIAM: And the
ascot reappears.
LAURA: Una, Una, Una! Is there anything else in there?
LIAM: No.
LAURA: Is it like saying Siri?
Like does it open up if anybody says it?
ALL: (imitating Jester) Hey, Siri.
TRAVIS: You know, Caleb, what a great wizard would do
would be to name new spells after all of his friends.
You know, spread the love.
LIAM: I will take that into consideration.
MARISHA: What about like--
TRAVIS: If there's a waiting list, I'm
at the top. Sorry, go ahead.
MARISHA: You know, like a joint combo.
LIAM: Like pizza combo on nachos. Widogast's Nacho Combos.
TRAVIS: I would equip that every morning.
TALIESIN: Like not your combos.
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay, good night.
TRAVIS: Okay, good night!
MATT: All right.
You guys go to your respective rooms.
You have your full rest for the night.
There are two days before the armada leaves.
You guys can just leave early if you want,
or you can leave with them,
or you can accomplish anything in the next few days
you want to here in Nicodranas before you head out.
What would you like to do?
LAURA: I'm just going to go to the store,
and I'm going to buy some party decorations,
and, like, long strips of, like, fabric
'cause I noticed that the party that we were at,
you know, they have that fabric stuff draping everywhere.
I thought that looked really cool,
so I'm going to get some of that stuff going.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Probably, like...
we already have a lot of clay.
Maybe I'll make a lot of little figurines.
Yeah, I'm going to buy some clay,
so I can do some sculpting on the boat.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: I'll say with all of those materials purchased,
that'll run you two and a half gold.
LAURA: Got it.
I'm talking lots of stuff.
I've got to make it for how many people, like 200 people?
MATT: Oh, this is for...?
LAURA: Party favors.
MATT: Okay that's a lot of people, sorry.
We'll put that at 25 gold.
LAURA: Like this big.
Mm-kay.
MATT: Does anybody else want anything
in Nicodranas or anything before we--
SAM: I'm spending two full days and nights with my family.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
SAM: That's it.
MATT: All right, perfect. Anybody else?
LIAM: Yeah, I will go and
visit Yussa at his tower.
No, no. Scratch that.
I will spend two days in our lodging
tinkering with that collar.
MATT: Okay, got it.
LIAM: I'm trying to ascertain
what I might use to power...
power it.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: As we previously discussed.
Roll an arcana check.
LIAM: I will definitely in those two days
cast Fortune's Favor on myself.
MATT: (chuckles)
LIAM: A natural 20, for a total of 30.
SAM: Ooh.
MARISHA: Dang.
MATT: Um...
Okay.
You can ascertain that there is a particular
kind of material that was utilized
to power this device.
Role a history check as well.
SAM: Ooh, double roll.
LIAM: This is all taking place in two days?
MATT: This is, like, over the period of time--
LIAM: Can I Fortune Favor
myself for these in two days?
MATT: I'll-- actually no, for this I'd say
because this is a momentary epiphany.
LIAM: You da boss.
History, you said?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Total of 23.
MATT: Okay.
You do recognize that whatever
was used to power this,
as well as possibly the the golems
within Halas' Folding Halls,
that this material does not exist naturally.
You don't know the name of it,
but it was utilized
as essentially an arcane
battery-type technology
that was employed by some of
the top echelon of archmages
during the Age of Arcanum.
You would know that some elements of it
have supposedly been traded around,
usually scavenged from ruins.
What elements you've heard of, coming from the north.
LIAM: From the north.
And is this possibly connected
to these cities floating in the sky?
MATT: Possibly, yeah.
And you do know, it wasn't like,
every city was floating.
There were there maybe three major cities
that themselves utilized
and had cornered the market
on brumstone and were able to
hold their entire city aloft.
Who could afford to.
LIAM: Brumstone?
MATT: Brumstone is the the
bluish stone that's used
in sky ships and is a mineral
that has the properties
that with a very basic, simple enchantment
that it's very susceptible to, causes it to lift.
And there are a few cities that had enough of this
that they had hoarded and built within
that they're able to hold an entire city aloft.
You know that supposedly one of these
had crashed...
in Eiselcross to the north,
in the Biting North.
And there are some elements
of the Empire outposts out there
that are currently excavating
what remnants they're able to
have access to of that fallen empire.
You would know it's referred to as Aeor.
A-E-O-R.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Do you want this?
LIAM: Hm? I will later on.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LIAM: We have too much to do.
MATT: So I'd say between those two rolls,
the only place you can think of
that would probably have the materials
that were utilized to power this,
that's one location that you know
people have been able to scavenge and sell often.
LIAM: Eiselcross.
MATT: Eiselcross.
LIAM: Okay.
Okay, thank you.
MATT: Cool.
LIAM: Done-zo.
MATT: Anybody else wanting to do anything?
TRAVIS: I would spend those two
nights changing my appearance,
and just hitting up any
of the old haunts and bars
that I would visit in Nicodranas
when I was on the Tide's Breath, the old ship.
Just to see if there are any familiar faces
or particular persons of interest,
just as a sort of means of reminiscing.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: No active conversations,
but just more like
passive melancholy and revisiting.
MATT: Okay. Cool.
Make a perception check for me.
SAM: Come on, come on.
TRAVIS: 10.
MATT: 10?
Mmkay. The chaos around the wharf and the docks,
the Open Quay there.
It's pretty busy and you have a hard time
finding a comfortable location
within some of these old haunts.
They are pretty busy, given the fact that the entire town
is abuzz with people getting ready to travel,
many from out of town.
And so, while these are familiar old haunts to you,
for other people, there is a novelty to these spaces.
A lot of the individuals have
probably never been to Nicodranas,
and have just come south with the armada to be present,
to help defend this negotiation.
But you do manage to enjoy
thinking back to some of the old life,
reminiscing about some of the good and some of the bad.
And just contemplating on who you are now,
and what this current path has for you.
And throughout this entire venture,
the one very visible structure that,
growing up was just a lighthouse,
now has a much stronger significance as
it is the massive stone lighthouse carved
in the shape of the Wild Mother that overlooks the harbor.
TRAVIS: Right.
MATT: And what was once just a
a physical marker
to get around the southern side of the city
is now almost a welcoming beacon
to know exactly where you are and that
reminding you that you're always watched over.
TRAVIS: It's pretty cool.
LAURA: I'm going to spend some time finishing up
and drawing some more of my tarot cards.
I've listed a few that I would like to make.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: One I want to be The Jewel and The Thief,
which is going to be a card
with a big red ruby in the middle of it,
letting out a lot of light, but in the shadow of the card,
you can see there's actually a man behind it
reaching and trying to grab it for himself.
MATT: That's cool.
LAURA: The Spark and Blaze.
So from one side, it's small spark,
and the other side flipped over
you can see it's a flame that's consumed
the entire bottom of the card.
MATT: Okay, cool.
LAURA: Death and Dawn,
which will be a grave
with a sun coming from behind of it.
I think those are the ones I want to do right now.
MATT: Okay.
So you spend the time
masterfully crafting and sketching
and painting out your new tarot cards.
LAURA: Yeah. Thank you.
MATT: Fantastic. Anybody else have anything to do?
ASHLEY: Are there any fun activities to do at the Chateau,
any shows or anything?
(laughter)
MARISHA: Sunday brunch.
ASHLEY: Sunday brunch.
TRAVIS: Ooh, brisket tacos!
MARISHA: Bottomless mimosas.
MATT: Marion is the central performer of the Chateau.
Aside from that, there
there's less performances more than there are occasional
games, mild gambling,
and in some cases, the occasional, like,
close-up magic performer might wander through
and earn a little bit of coin on the off days.
That's the Chateau specifically.
But throughout the city,
there are all manner of performances
and there are musicians, and dancers, and
a whole number of artists of all different kinds
that go to the streets to busk and earn coin
from those who are passing through,
from those that live nearby.
Some that this is where they reside and make their living,
others are just making their way
up and down the Menagerie Coast,
jumping from city state to city state,
doing best they can to make a splash and then leave before
the Zhelezo get any wind of maybe untoward activity.
But there's a lot of culture here.
There's a reason that the city has its name,
and it's beautiful.
And I guess, for all the times you've been here,
it's nice to almost take a little bit of time for yourself,
just wander and experience.
And it's interesting to be a town
that is, you know, based in color
and to be the monochromatic
stranger from the east,
but yet still smiling and enjoying it all.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
After walking through just alone,
I want to just go find a beach somewhere at night
and just go sit out by the water
and play my bone harp and
just have a nice self care Sunday.
MATT: Okay!
I dig it.
All righty.
It's a beautiful night. The moon is only barely visible
across the horizon by the time you get out there.
There's a little bit of light dancing across the waves.
The stars are out above you,
and you're far enough away where you can see the distant
dotted glows of all the various points of lantern light
throughout the entire city, but you feel peaceful and alone,
comfortable, and in then that moment
content as you begin to
practice along your harp.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Anybody else?
TALIESIN: I want to make a quick run to buy some
magical supplies for a few of my weirder spells
just so I have some options.
MATT: Okay.
The two places that you had uncovered
as possible sources:
There is Meandering Treasures in the Restless Wharf,
or there is the Seafloor's Bounty in the Open Key-Kway.
TRAVIS: ♪ Key-Kway! ♪
SAM: Key-Kway?
TALIESIN: I don't know. Which has the better vibe?
TRAVIS: Contigo.
MATT: Meandering Treasures definitely seems to be the larger
and more prominent of the two.
TALIESIN: I'll support a small business;
I'll go to the other one.
MATT: Okay.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Grabbing some incense, stuff like that,
couple hundred gold worth.
MATT: No worries.
So you enter the Seafloor's Bounty.
It seems to be a general store of kinds,
but it specializes in pawning items and scavenged loot
and things that a lot of travelers come through
and want to offload, whether legal or not.
The exterior itself looks similar to many
of the other base wooden buildings,
but it's been heavily decorated with
dry, rotten nets that have been pulled across
the corners of it with all sorts of, like,
hanging glass bottles.
You can see, outside, against the the walls,
there are strips of leather that are currently being tanned.
There is a gathered group of
five different colorful tropical birds
that aren't in cages,
but they're staying on perches outside and as you approach,
they begin to make noise, like, (bird chittering)
this garbled bird noise as you approach
and just look over towards you.
TALIESIN: Hey. Everything going all right?
Doing okay?
MATT: (bird fluttering) (clicking)
TALIESIN: That's nice. That's good.
Hold on, I've got--
I pull out whatever the hell was growing in my pouch.
TRAVIS: Lichen.
TALIESIN: Yeah, have something--
This is different, it's from far away.
Yeah.
I mean, come on, you either want any don't.
MATT: (fluttering) Lands on your arm and just eats out of your finger.
TALIESIN: I figured.
MATT: Shits on your arm, goes back to its perch.
TALIESIN: I don't clean it off. Okay.
LAURA: Ew!
TRAVIS: Radagast.
MATT: Come on, Radagast.
TALIESIN: You're very welcome.
MATT: So yeah. So you enter the interior.
It smells so strong
of medicinal herb and fish.
Just the combination of the two is this odd,
somewhat pungent to most people, but to you,
I wouldn't say it would bother you too much.
The inside, however, is pleasantly decorated.
There are all manner of, like, small pots that contain
segmented gardens and a lot of displaced
herbalism.
Spec-- it's kind of like--
Specifically built herb gardens
that are dotting in the interior
at different heights and different shelves
that give part of the aroma that you encountered,
and are probably, over time, part of what's harvested
and utilized in different balms
and salves and stuff that are sold here.
You can see they are clusters
of fishing gear on one wall.
You can see some long spears and fishing spears.
You can see there's a,
like, a flintlock pistol
on one wall in the back.
You can see there's one table that contains
what looks like a bunch of
tools and other odd objects that have just enough rust
and barnacles on them that you assume they were probably
pulled from the sea floor and then sold here.
It's an eclectic interior.
You do see the one person who runs this place
is a older female gnome.
Has this very deep-set smile lines on her face
and these crow's feet that almost cause--
the lid seems to almost completely cover
the eyes, except for a little bit of beady black
that pokes through. Very, very suntanned skin.
You can see it's been burned in places over and over again
to the point where it gives you this very, like,
splotchy complexion that's strangely adorable.
Her hair is sun bleached
to where you can see the gray and light brown beneath,
but the entirety of the main surface itself is practically
white and blonde from sun bleaching.
As soon as you, like, look around and then notice
she's just sitting there their hands covered and goes,
"Hi!"
TALIESIN: Hey, hi.
MATT: "How can I help you?"
TALIESIN: I'm Caduceus.
I don't know if we've had the pleasure.
MATT: "I'm Sheila Bobsnopper."
TALIESIN: It's a pleasure.
MATT: "And welcome to my establishment."
MARISHA and LAURA: Bobsnopper?
LAURA: I love it!
TALIESIN: I was hoping just to pick up some some sundries.
I'm looking for some incense, a little bit of
I can't remember the name of it,
but that's saffron fat ointment that is used to make
True Seeing tinctures.
I do a little bit of my own,
but I could use a little bit of that.
MATT: "Let's have a look and see what we can do for you.
"Come on, come on."
She hops off her stool and scuttles over to you.
Yeah, those materials, you can purchase what's necessary.
TALIESIN: 100 each. And then, if you've got
anything else interesting,
I'm always a collector of odds and ends,
and just for fun, I'm going to cast Detect Magic
in the room and see what I see. If anything's shiny.
MATT: Okay.
You--
(chuckles)
there are
three things that catch your attention.
You see on one wall, there is what looks to be a leather fan
of some kind that is just set on the edge.
It's about maybe this long and it's sprawled out open-wards.
Looks like a hand fan, but it's
a little larger than the ones
you've seen used as part of like, delicate social,
presentational type of design. It has a beautiful design
on the front that looks like a continuously curled series
of lines, like snakes or serpents
that are winding around each other
but without a head. It's just these long,
coiling lines, gray and they fade at the tips,
tangled and weirdly beautiful, like, very watercolor-esque.
But that definitely gives a glow.
There is a case
that you see that gives a faint magical aura from the inside
of it. You can just barely sense from the interior.
It has a heavy, like, bronze lock on the outside that looks
very, very intricately carved and detailed.
And there is, what looks to be,
a leather strap around her neck
that has a bundle of dried herbs
or roots that are bound
and held to this choker-like necklace.
TALIESIN: I'm going to ask in order.
The fan's interesting.
What do you know about that?
MATT: "Well, you see, that that was sold to me
"not but seven or eight months ago by
"Gerald Kingsman. He's a fisherman that
"comes over here from Brokenbank occasionally
"and provides all sorts of strange findings
"and hasn't had any takers yet,
"but from what he tells me,
"(whispers) it's got some magic in it."
TALIESIN: Well, that's exciting.
I'd be curious what you-- well,
I'm going to ask about a couple more things,
but I would be curious about how much
you'd willing to--
MATT: "I can show you, if you want."
TALIESIN: I mean, if you know what it does, sure.
MATT: She takes it off the wall, and goes,
"Let's step outside."
You step outside into the the warm daylight. She goes,
"Now watch that barrel,"
and she points to a barrel across the street about,
like, 40 or so feet away from you. She opens the fan, goes.
(exhale)
And suddenly,
(heavy wind gust)
this wind gust just bursts from it, slams into the barrel,
and you watch it suddenly go
(rolling)
and then roll, and roll, and roll, and roll
before it comes to a stop.
TALIESIN: (guffaws)
MATT: She closes it, snaps it shut.
TALIESIN: Oh wow, that's pretty cool.
MATT: "200 gold."
TALIESIN: 200 gold. Well, all right.
Other questions, that's pretty cool.
That's-- wow. Wow.
Is it just barrels, or does it do other stuff, too?
MATT: "I haven't tried."
TALIESIN: Wow. Barrels alone are pretty exciting.
Does it work on people?
MATT: "I haven't tried."
TALIESIN: Do you want to?
MATT: "Only if you buy it."
TALIESIN: We'll talk.
MATT: "Okay."
TALIESIN: Then I pick up the case.
This is exciting.
MATT: "Now that's the mystery case.
"Meaning I haven't been able to get it open."
(laughter)
"So I don't know what's inside.
"But I'll sell it to you for 500 gold.
"Who knows, it could be ashes.
"It could be the lost jewels of an ancient ruler."
TALIESIN: Either way, that's pretty exciting,
MATT: "Isn't it?"
TALIESIN: Yeah,
TALIESIN: Wow, I mean, yeah,
they're both pretty good. Oh, man.
MARISHA: -- grab bag.
TALIESIN: And, not that it's for sale, but I was curious,
that's such an interesting thing you're wearing.
I assume it's not for sale.
I was just sort of curious about it, though.
MATT: "This helps me maintain a lot of my gardens
"in here. It allows me to converse
"with the creatures that grow from the earth.
"See what they need, when they need them."
TALIESIN: Oh, I can already do that stuff.
MATT: "They talk back and tell me what they require."
TALIESIN: Hmm.
I don't suppose you'd be interested in parting
with that by any chance?
MATT: "(skeptical noise)"
TALIESIN: Or making another one.
I understand if like--
MATT: "What's your offer?"
TALIESIN: Oh man, I don't know.
You got so much fun stuff.
You want 500 gold for the box.
200 gold for the fan.
MATT: "Yeah."
TALIESIN: How about 900 gold for the whole kit and caboodle?
MATT: "Hmm.
"'Cause I like your hair..."
Go ahead and make a persuasion check.
LAURA: Can you Guide yourself?
TRAVIS: That's a fair offer.
TALIESIN: I'm not going to Guide myself.
Because I don't want to...
Actually, I'll do something-- before I do this.
You like the hair?
MATT: "I do."
TALIESIN: I can sweeten the deal a little bit
and I remove some of the pink phosphorescent mold
that's growing on me that's part of the stuff that makes
the hair go and I'll just place some of it on the counter.
You can see if you can get it going.
This is not natural.
This is a choice. This is something I do.
MATT: Go ahead and roll your persuasion check.
TALIESIN: All right.
TRAVIS: Come on, baby.
TALIESIN: 12.
MATT: 12? Well, the DC did decrease when you offered
the lichen, so that helped.
She goes, "The pile of pink stuff,
"900 gold, and you have yourself a deal.
"(spits)"
TALIESIN: (spits)
(cheering)
TRAVIS: We bought magic shit! You did.
TALIESIN: Can't wait to come back
again. This place is so nice
MATT: "Any time. Maybe wait a few weeks."
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to be gone for a while.
Don't worry about it.
MATT: "No worries. Any time."
TALIESIN: And you buy, too? Out of curiosity.
MATT: "Oh! Always."
TALIESIN: If I see something fun, I'll bring it by.
MATT: "Please do. Always looking to collect
"and find new owners for them."
TALIESIN: Pleasure.
MATT: So yeah, you have--
TALIESIN: Let me knock 900 gold off my--
SAM: That's a lot of--
TALIESIN: That's what gold-- oh, he don't care!
ASHLEY: We should go sell those bracers--
MATT: So here you go.
ASHLEY: --that we don't need.
TALIESIN: Woo!
All right, let's see.
Okay.
TRAVIS: It's just the two, right,
because you can't open the box yet?
MATT: Yeah, haven't opened the box.
TALIESIN: Can't open the box yet? Yeah.
ASHLEY: What's in the box?
TALIESIN: Oh man.
LAURA: What if it's empty?
You wouldn't do that.
Would you do that? You would do that.
TRAVIS: What are you talking about?
SAM: Mercer would do anything.
TALIESIN: Oh man, so this makes
it so they can talk back, then?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. That's pretty cool.
And then I've got the weird box.
Okay, and where's my equipment?
Let me knock 900 bucks off this.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: Worth it.
MATT: Fantastic.
TALIESIN: I skip back home.
Magic beans!
MATT: Anything else?
MARISHA: I-- Ashley read my mind. Beau is going to take a
bed roll and some food and shove it in a bag
and she's going to go walk up the coast a little bit, find
a spot, and just camp overnight for the rest of her time.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Have some alone time.
MATT: You got it.
On the last night before the armada leaves,
you're out there camping and you do hear the soft sound
of-- well, roll a performance check.
(chuckling)
LAURA: Aww.
(scatting, bass plucking noises)
ASHLEY: Performance is minus two.
MATT: 10.
You hear...
what at times falters, but is mostly a pleasant
sound of a harp.
MARISHA: Can I see where it's coming from?
MATT: I'd say with your perception,
your passive perception, yeah.
So you lean forward. You can glance
and just-- I mean, a way's off,
but you see a figure sitting just where the horizon
and the ocean meets, what looks to be a bit of a sand dune
there along the beach.
TRAVIS: (wave crashing)
MARISHA: Yeah yeah yeah!
I just nod and smile.
Watch from a distance.
MATT: Cool.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: ♪ From a distance. ♪
(laughter)
MATT: So the morning is eminent.
As you come to consciousness
and begin to prepare yourselves for the day, the energy
is palpable across the city.
You see countless Righteous Brand soldiers
and Shore Wardens being aided by Zhelezo
in bringing final materials towards the harbor.
You can see that most ships are now out there and arranged
and ready to leave. The last few stragglers are being loaded
up. You can see the final conversations are happening
between the local lords and ladies
and those that will be leading as part of this journey.
It's going to happen soon, so
what would you guys like to do?
SAM: As we wake up, I'm going to grab my husband,
just have a private moment to be like:
Hey, Yeza, let's talk.
MATT: "Of course, of course, yeah."
SAM: Real quick.
So I'm back now. I'm me.
We're a family again. It's pretty cool.
MATT: "It's pretty great, I'm not going to lie."
SAM: Yeah, but also, you've been living here
in this weird temporary space that is not our home.
And at some point Luc will have to start school and
what are we doing?
MATT: "I've been thinking about that. I don't know how long
"this is going to take. I'm not going to lie,
"living most of my life in Felderwin,
"you know, I was content.
"It's really nice here."
SAM: Oh?
MATT: "Well, yeah, they have-- there's the ocean."
SAM: Ugh.
MATT: "Right.
"Luc likes the ocean."
SAM: Okay, no, that's okay.
MATT: "I don't know. The culture here, the people,
"it's a very different experience,
"and I'm rather enjoying the change of pace, so
"don't feel like it's a burden
on either of us, necessarily."
SAM: Well, I know, but don't you think
we should get some sort of a permanent home?
If you like it here-- I like it here, too.
MATT: "I'm not saying we need to stay here forever,
"but I'm just saying, don't feel
like it's been a burden either.
"I mean, our home's in Felderwin,
"what remains of it, I suppose.
"But--
"yeah, I like it here for now.
"I am considering finding a tutor for Luc."
SAM: Okay. Well--
MATT: "Mainly 'cause it's important for him to--
"he's getting to that age now where I think he can start
"learning more than shooting that crossbow."
SAM: Yes, no, he has to have
education in other aspects of his life
other than physical.
We should definitely do that.
In fact, maybe Marion knows some tutors,
the ones that helped raise Jester.
MATT: "That's true.
"That's very true. I'll go ahead and ask her.
"I think I'm going to ask her."
SAM: Okay, but like,
I don't know-- do we have a plan?
Should we go back to Felderwin at some point
and, you know, just be a family?
MATT: "I mean,
"I'd like to, eventually."
SAM: Well, I don't want you guys to just be sitting
in limbo here waiting for me.
MATT: "We're not sitting in limbo, necessarily.
"Like I said, this has been an interesting change of pace.
"I think it's a great opportunity for Luc
"to see more of the world and meet people
"of all different walks of life and
"get away from the very-- frankly, insular experience
"that Felderwin is a lot of the time.
"And you're doing some pretty big things.
"The last thing I want to do is to get in the way of that."
SAM: It's true, I mean, my friends are counting
on me to help them. We have a pretty important
thing coming up. I would hate to abandon them right now,
but I can't keep doing this forever
and leaving you guys after two days, three days.
It's not fair to you.
MATT: "We're not going to do it forever, right?"
SAM: No, you're right.
MATT: "Right?"
SAM: No, you're right. I'm not going to do it forever.
MATT: "Look what they did: they brought you back."
SAM: They did.
MATT: "They saved-- you all
"saved me from a very terrible experience.
"They helped keep our son safe.
"I don't think I can ever find the words to express it,
"but I'm extremely grateful for everything
"that your friends have done.
"Whatever they need help with,
"that involving my better half helping
"as she does, then what else could I ask for?"
SAM: You are, like, the greatest husband ever,
by the way, can I just say?
MATT: "Well,
"we kind of shaped each other.
"But to that point,
"I'm enjoying the change of pace for now. I think Luc is.
"We have a small plan to try and continue life
"as it is while we're here.
"And...
"I kind of like not being under the thumb of some
"odd Assembly woman, so I'm okay with this."
SAM: Okay.
MATT: "For now."
SAM: I'll leave you enough money
that if it feels weird that you're
in this hotel place, that if you want to get an apartment
or something, you can. You should.
Or if you like being here, that's fine, too.
MATT: "How much is real estate out here in Nicodranas?"
SAM: I passed an office last night.
They had all these pictures of like, "you can live here!"
You know, they had some condos.
MATT: "Oh, oh."
SAM: Timeshare, there was a timeshare.
MATT: "I've heard someone mention 'timeshare.'"
SAM: Yeah, I don't quite know how it works, but--
MATT: "They had free food, it was great."
SAM: Oh yeah, did you--
MATT: "For a very long time."
SAM: Yeah, I mean, free food, though.
Well, if you see anything,
you know, just let me know, because I've been collecting
quite a bit of money.
MATT: "Well, if you need somewhere to keep it, I can
"act as the accountant, I guess, in this arrangement."
SAM: Yeah, of course, of course.
Here, I'll leave you--
I'll leave you 100 platinum.
MATT: You give it to him, he goes,
"Veth. Uh..."
SAM: Well, you know, I shouldn't be carrying this with me.
What if I lose it or something?
MATT: "What if I lose it?!"
He quickly puts it in his pockets.
"I have-- wow.
"Yeah, go with your friends!"
SAM: I mean, it's crazy. We make a lot of money.
MATT: "I think I could probably find a place, yeah. Wow.
"Okay, yeah, no, I'll get on that."
SAM: Or not.
MATT: "But like, as incredible as this is,
"don't get yourself in any
situations that are too dangerous."
SAM: Hoo.
Ah...
You know what?
I can't promise that,
but I can promise you that that my friends will
do their best to protect me.
MATT: "Okay.
"There are a lot of tales of heroic sacrifices,
"and poems spoken by different bards and storytellers
"of these people who stood up to these great challenges
"and gave themselves for a better tomorrow.
"You're extremely brave.
"I want my wife. I don't want a poem."
SAM: Yeah.
I promise I'll be more than just a story.
MATT: "Okay."
SAM: I'll come back.
SAM: And this will end at some point,
and we'll go to Felderwin.
We'll have a summer place here
and a winter place there.
We'll be-- not bicoastal, but you know.
Yeah.
MATT: "Be one of those hip
couples that travels all the time."
SAM: Totally, yeah.
MATT: "Maybe I'll get a tan."
SAM: Ooh, you would look good with a tan.
MATT: "Think so?"
SAM: Yeah, you're very pasty.
MATT: "Yeah."
SAM: But you know, when you're tanning,
stay at least 25 feet from the water.
LAURA: You're such a shithead. (laughs)
SAM: Okay.
MATT: "Okay."
SAM: All right, I'll be back in a couple weeks, I think.
MATT: "Okay. We'll be here."
SAM: Okay.
We probably have 10 minutes
before I have to leave, so take off your pants.
(laughter)
MATT: "Yes, madam."
MATT: All right, the rest of you guys got your stuff.
Any last minute business, or are we heading to the docks?
LAURA: Let's go.
MARISHA: To the docks.
ASHLEY: Let's go!
TRAVIS: To the boats!
TALIESIN: Let's go to the docks.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: To the docks.
TRAVIS: What's in the docks?
MATT: You make your way to the Balleater.
Your crew is waiting for you.
Smaller than usual, just because there's only so much room
on the ship.
The four main crew that operate it stay behind.
That includes Marius and Orly,
and I believe it's Gallan
and one other person you haven't met.
It is, yeah, Gallan.
The rest of you all make your way up there.
The sails are unfurled, anchor is raised,
and you join the outskirts of the armada as it begins
to make its way out into the open waters of the Lucidian
Ocean, heading southward, to southeast.
That's where we're going to take a break.
(groans, low cheering)
LIAM: To the sea!
MATT: We'll be back here in just a few
minutes, but in the meantime we
do have our Wyrmwood giveaway.
Tonight is the padauk tabletop tray.
(laughter)
LIAM: Bringing it back.
MATT: Delightful leather interior dice tray,
beautiful orange color for one lucky winner
there in the chat.
Tonight's keyword is
♪ sailing ♪
MATT and TRAVIS: ♪ It takes me away ♪
ALL: ♪ To where I'm going ♪
MATT: No, we can't clear that.
Sailing. The word is "sailing."
Enter it once and only once in the chat.
More than once, you'll be disqualified
and once again only people in the US
and Canada, excluding Quebec.
We'll be back here shortly with a winner.
We'll see you guys soon.
♪ You got the perfect warlock ♪
♪ Her weapon and supplies ♪
♪ But you need place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'Cause you're so disorganized ♪
♪ You click open the webpage ♪
♪ You heard about on Critical Role ♪
♪ And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ In that mineshaft full of gnolls ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D (yeah!) ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ Yeah, D&D ♪
♪ D&D (yeah!) ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ You got your stats ♪
♪ You've got your swords ♪
♪ And you got your invisible wand ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
MISTY: You got them both? Do you guys know?
LIAM: Yeah.
MISTY: Yeah.
LIAM: What the fuck?!
SAM: How?
ASHLY: How did you--
SAM: That's impossible.
MISTY: Right here is the one pair of handcuffs
from which Houdini
could not escape.
Then you can actually ask this owl yes or no questions.
SAM: Will I die a painful death?
Eyy! That's good!
ASHLY: That's nice!
MISTY: Do you have any martial arts background or anything?
LIAM: One more time.
MISTY: Yes, yes!
SAM: And then, I've seen magicians do this where they
(chains rattling)
MISTY: Definitely!
ASHLEY: Put some mustard on it, okay.
MISTY: Yeah, girl!
ASHLY: Don't do that face.
SAM: Oh! Oh! Oh!
ASHLY: Magic.
(jazzy music)
BRANDON: No one has ever really tried to adapt
an RPG campaign into an animated series.
So we're actually breaking new ground.
JENNIFER: They created something that we
didn't know the world needed.
MEREDITH: Really there's something there for everyone.
MARC: Even if you are steeped in this world,
there's still a couple of moments
I think we can surprise you.
MATT: All this stuff coming out is just so freaking cool.
(intense music)
MATT: So the story of Vox Machina takes place on Tal'Dorei,
which is a continent in the world of Exandria.
It is an area of smaller nations, but there is an overall
sovereign, Uriel, who is the leader of the area.
Vox Machina are a bunch of-- I can't say heroes, really.
But they are people that are trying to get by
and they found that it's easier to survive
and succeed as a group than independently.
And so, out of necessity, they became a party.
The series begins with a new story.
This is a telling of Vox Machina as they come into their own
as a group.
EUGENE: It's a fantasy series. It's mature.
It is fun. It is about camaraderie, it's about friendship.
We are going to explore all of these amazing
fantasy elements that people shied away from.
We embrace that. We love that stuff.
BRANDON: It's a completely unique thing,
in terms of high fantasy.
There's been no high fantasy that's even remotely
similar to The Legend of Vox Machina.
MAE: I think people will be able to
look at this and be like,
"Oh, this is a show with dragons and demons,
"and, like, everything in between, but ultimately,
"it's about this group of friends."
MATT: We wanted to capture the spark and the magic
of when we were playing at the table,
just in a different form of media.
MEREDITH: I'm just really excited to
see the really heartfelt, touching scenes.
That's what got me into the stream in the first place.
MAE: This is something that is very serious and dramatic,
but has moments of intense and beautiful levity
and lightheartedness, and that comes from literally
this was a group of friends having fun.
And we, as the writers' room,
should also be a group of friends having fun.
And that was the moment I was like, we got this.
BRANDON: Well, the writers' room was just,
it was just a blast,
you know, getting to work with all these amazingly talented
writers who are all big fans of fantasy and RPGs.
EUGENE: God, the writers were all amazing.
And they all brought different things to the table.
JENNIFER: We had a mix of seasoned and new.
There's young, excited energy, and then
wise, laid back energy, a little bit.
KEVIN: There is sort of the who's who
for what sort of action animation we've done
have been to the top tier people,
some really great new voices that have come from
science fiction and from live action.
It's really been a nice mix.
♪ Role, Critical Role ♪
MATT: We've never worked with Brandon before, so
this is the first time me and him were able to collaborate
on something, but he was just a great idea guy,
as well as being the person who's
guiding the production side.
BRANDON: Eugene Son, our story editor,
he's been incredibly helpful along the way,
really implementing all of our notes,
coming in and having all kinds of great ideas.
EUGENE: Jen Muro knows so much about Critical Role.
She's been a fan for a while
and she could recall a lot of the things, the adventures
and such that the characters have gone through.
Mae Catt has so much energy and so many ideas.
She was fantastic in the writers' room that way.
Kevin and Doc are an amazing writing team that I've gotten
the pleasure work with over the years.
Their dynamic as a writing team is fantastic.
I'd never worked with Marc before, but he brings a wealth
of experience in comics and live acted TV.
We also worked with Daniel Thomsen,
who came from the live action world.
Brought a whole different kind of storytelling to the room.
Ashly Burch, I had never worked with before until
Vox Machina, but she's fantastic!
MATT: Beyond just being a talented writer,
she's actually played with us.
She played Keg in our second campaign for a number
of episodes, as well as a live show.
And so I think bringing that to the table,
made her even that much more of a powerhouse.
MARC: Everybody was, you know, soup to nuts, like,
really, really nice and really, really smart.
MATT: I love when the writers' room is everyone throwing out
ideas and everyone's building on each other.
And it's from all different facets, just
brick after brick, you can see the wall coming to fruition.
EUGENE: It's fascinating adapting The Legend of Vox Machina
from a role playing game campaign
and trying to translate that and bring that to life
in an animated series.
MAE: An adaptation need not be beat for beat.
And so our job, as the writers, was to maintain the spirit
of the story and the spirit of each character
and the character arcs and what they're going through
and act as the translators from what it was
into what it can be now in the animated form.
BRANDON: There's going to be surprises,
there's going to be things that are changed,
but also at the same time, we want to do that because
we want the diehard fans to not just come in
and know everything. Like, you want to be surprised.
You want things to change just enough.
MARC: To find a way to get to a place in the story
where you're giving the audience
the thing they didn't know that they wanted,
but they actually needed.
EUGENE: When you're dealing with a preexisting property,
like a, say, a graphic novel, you'd say,
"Okay, we have to keep this moment.
This is a pivotal moment.
"Maybe we can lose this, maybe we can plus this."
When you're going with a campaign where it's
hundreds of hours of material
and a lot of it is really brilliant, it's like,
okay, now what are the things that would translate
really well to an animated series?
What have they not seen
that we think, "Wow okay, we can take this,
"and we can really do something fantastic with it."
And those are the things that really excite us.
JENNIFER: Whittling down source material was an undertaking
that I was terrified about because
Matt has such a clear vision,
and I definitely did not want to step on that.
MATT: Certain ideas have to be changed
or altered as part of the adaptation. It's a hard process.
JENNIFER: There's things we were, like,
"Oh, my god, he'll kill us."
And then he was like, "No, that's fine."
We're like, "We were worrying for three days about this."
MARC: Matt would always sit down and say,
"Yeah, no, this is the way it was in the campaign,
"but if this is better, let's talk about it,
"let's litigate it. Let's investigate it,
let's rattle test it."
MATT: Sometimes the harder ideas, the ones that go against
what you initially expected,
make the most important changes.
EUGENE: Every project I've ever taken on,
research is a huge part of it.
You want to dive and get in that mindset and that mentality
of the world you're exploring.
MAE: Critical Role is an IP and is a legacy IP,
but it's happening right now.
You can interface with the creators of this thing
that you love immediately.
MATT: Everyone, for the most part, were able to make it
for an element of the writers' room to
answer questions about their particular character,
how they would react to certain elements.
You know, questions that I couldn't have answered
anywhere near as good as they could've.
DOC: The fact that the cast created their own characters
and that Matt, as the game master, created the scenarios
and then you're in the writers' room with those people,
with that cast, you get to feed off that immediacy.
It's like writing a Spider-Man script
in the room with Stan Lee.
MEREDITH: It's working very hard to honor the original canon
and the original content and the original game.
BRANDON: Nothing is getting past these guys.
We're making sure that, like, this is very much
the show that they want to make.
MATT: It's been really cool to watch it all come together.
And as each thing gets approved and, you know,
we see every facet of it begin to
become more and more realized,
you can just feel the palpable energy of excitement.
Not just within us, but the animation studio,
and everyone who's working on the actual production side.
It's already turning into something very special.
KEVIN: We are as excited as any fan of Critical Role
to see how these things turn out.
There's nothing better than if you love a property
and you're seeing it expanded to a new world.
It just takes it in a way you never even
could envision as a fan.
MATT: We wanted to capture the spark and the magic of
when we were playing at the table,
just in a different form of media.
MARC: It will be like drinking a drink that you really like
by a bartender you've never met before,
who, like, adds a little something
and you can't quite put your finger on what it is.
Is like, "Did you put, like, nutmeg in this?"
And like, "Mm, I'm not sure, but I love this drink.
"Oh, it's delicious. Give me more of this drink
because I like being drunk."
If you like being drunk on Critical Role,
then I think you'll like what this series
of bartenders have done to it.
(intense drums)
(Critical Role theme backing track)
BRIAN (V.O.): Last time on Talks Machina.
SAM: What are those things where you have two sticks
and then a third stick and you, like, boop boop boop boop.
MARISHA: Are they just called, like, juggling sticks?
SAM: What are they called? They got to be called something.
You don't do this?
MARISHA: Devil sticks?
SAM: Devil sticks. I knew you'd get it.
SAM and MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: That's what you should learn
how to do with the Wyrmwood stuff.
Devil sticks.
BRIAN: Do you understand how valuable
and rare a lot of this wood is,
and you want me to juggle with it?
(giggling)
SAM: How dare I.
BRIAN: How dare you, sir.
Can I come over and-- you know, have you ever seen people
juggle with bowling pins?
SAM: Sure.
BRIAN: Can I do that with your rare wines?
SAM: Hmm.
BRIAN: Huh? Then I won't let you
do it with my fucking Wyrmwood.
Ask something like that again on this fucking show.
Wait till we go on break or something to ask shit like that.
MARISHA: There's so much tension on the show.
BRIAN: We're tired!
MARISHA: We're so tired and cranky.
SAM: I'm fine.
I'm fine!
MARISHA: I know you've cried in the shower.
BRIAN: You've cried in the shower.
MARISHA: I know you have. I know you're fucking lying.
SAM: What would I cry about in the shower?
MARISHA: Oh, you fucking liar.
BRIAN: What makes you sad, Sam?
SAM: (exhales)
BRIAN: "One of the most subtly powerful moments in a show
"with lots of them was Nott turning down
"Yasha's offer of a sip of wine just before
"the transformation."
MARISHA: Oh yeah, it was beautiful.
BRIAN: "Could you walk us through what
Nott/Veth was thinking
"in that moment and how Veth's attitude toward
"her drinking problem has changed."
SAM: Yeah, maybe she thinks that she she might be okay now.
She doesn't need it anymore.
BRIAN: Wow.
SAM: Yeah.
BRIAN: Is that a reflection on you, Sam?
Will you be giving up booze as well
and perhaps maybe auctioning off
some of your rare wines that we referenced earlier
in the juggling conversation?
SAM: I think I need to go take a shower.
BRIAN: Oh! Oh goodness.
DANI: Finally.
BRIAN: Is it possible that we have cracked the--
there we go.
SAM: (fake crying)
BRIAN: There we go.
SAM: I don't want to give up my wine!
I love it.
(crying) I love it so much.
BRIAN: All the wine's coming with me.
SAM: What are these bubbles?
MARISHA: That's your tears.
SAM: Oh, the tears!
BRIAN: That's tears in the shower.
SAM: I've never cried before,
so I didn't understand what was-- (sobbing)
I love my wine.
BRIAN: Like tears in--
SAM: (crying) I love my Brunello di Montalcino!
I love my Pinot Noir!
BRIAN: List them off for us, all your wine.
SAM: I love my Cab Francs!
It's almost Beaujolais season!
DANI: Beaujolais has to be made up.
(birds chirping)
SAM: I'm a fan of hot air balloon rides above
the Venetian countryside.
I'm a fan of Momlan.
She's always got my back.
I'm a fan of wine older than Taliesin.
Hmm.
I'm a fan of Twitch subscriptions.
I'm a fan of emotes by Arsequeef, they're neat.
I'm a fan of a wife so cool
(distorted) people forget I exist exist.
Exist.
(monkey calls)
(elephant trumpeting)
(explosion)
(warning alarm)
(distorted high-pitch electronic notes)
(intense scary noises)
(baby crying)
(harmonica)
(short panting)
I'm a fan of
wearing your skin as a mask.
(Vivaldi's "Spring" from "Four Seasons")
(intense folk rock music)
MATT: And welcome back.
So before
before we get into the game, we do have our Wyrmwood winner.
Wyrmwood winner for tonight is FamTheWizard.
TRAVIS: (chanting) Fam- the wizard!
MATT: FamTheWizard, congratulations.
MARISHA: (chanting) Fam- the wizard!
ALL: (chanting) Fam Fam the wizard!
Congratulations to you, FamTheWizard.
We'll have that box sent out to you ASAP.
All righty, so The Mighty Nein heading off to sea--
LAURA: Oh gosh!
MATT: -- for a many days' journey.
It is about, looking at it in the detailed elements,
about 395 miles around the
southern edge of the Ashkeeper Peaks,
avoiding the Inkclaw Reef, that'll be to the south,
and into the open waters of the designated meeting location
within Lucidian Ocean.
The armada moves at the speed
of its slowest ship as one piece.
TALIESIN: Is that us?
MATT: In optimal weather, travel is
set to be between nine to 11 days.
MARISHA: Oh shit.
SAM: Nine to 11 months?!
TALIESIN, MATT, LIAM, and TRAVIS: Days.
SAM: Oh.
LIAM: We've been shitting around!
TRAVIS: Children will be born.
MATT: So.
Plenty of time on ship. Get to meet
your old crew.
Orly is happy to helm as Navigator, but you guys can go back
to whatever positions you want to,
or you can return to the previous positions that you've had
worked and trained as.
That includes you as the Captain,
Beauregard as the First Mate or Cooper,
Caduceus as the Boatswain, Jester as the Carpenter.
LAURA: Of course I am.
MATT: Veth as the Powder Monkey.
SAM: Yep, that's me.
MATT: And Caleb as the Navigator.
But you also have Orly able to helm navigation
if you don't want to have to worry about that,
or you can have Marius help as a Boatswain as well.
And Gallan is trained as a Carpenter as well.
Gallan who has axe scarred.
MARISHA: And who's the new kid?
LAURA: (laughs) That's right.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh no.
TRAVIS: The new kid?
MARISHA: Yeah, who's the new kid?
You said there was a new kid?
MATT: Oh right, yeah.
There was a fourth person who is--
TALIESIN: New-ish.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Let me see here.
ASHLEY: (whispering) That's weird.
MATT: Shelda is her name.
MARISHA: Shelda.
MATT: Yeah.
She is a half elf, young punk looking kid,
maybe no more than 19 or so.
Looks scrappy. Probably came from a relatively impoverished
upbringing and is definitely in shades of young Beauregard,
looking to prove themself out at sea.
TRAVIS: How old is Shelda?
MATT: Shelda-- you're not sure,
but it looks to be, like, late teens, early 20s.
MARISHA: I go up to her.
MATT: Okay, you see her with her jet black hair itself
that's short in the back in this big long
curled mess in the front that, like, covers part
of the face a bit as it plumes forward.
Looks at you with the one immediately visible eye,
the other one obscured between the rest of the hair
in front, and goes, "Can I help you?"
MARISHA: 'Sup?
MATT: "'Sup?"
MARISHA: How you doing?
MATT: "Doing all right."
MARISHA: You like working with these people?
MATT: "I've only been with them for a few weeks.
"They hired me while we were waiting."
MARISHA: These guys giving you a hard time?
MATT: "Not yet.
"Why? Should they?"
MARISHA: No, I was just checking.
I mean, I kind of wouldn't care either way.
So...
MATT: "This is your ship, right?"
MARISHA: Yeah, well, mine and my crew's.
Mighty Nein. I'm technically the first mate.
MATT: "Well, first mate."
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "It's a pleasure."
Cool, just wanted to make my acquaintance.
And then I walk away.
MATT: Okay. (laughs)
TRAVIS: Want to make my acquaintance?
LIAM: Sure.
TALIESIN: Smooth move, exlax.
MARISHA: Cool.
(laughter)
LAURA: I'm sure she thinks you're really cool.
TALIESIN: Oh man.
TRAVIS: Do you know what TikTok videos are?
(laughter)
TRAVIS: I'm old.
MATT: And so...
TALIESIN: Beau, I got you something.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: I picked up something in town.
I've been waiting to-- I hand Beau the fan.
Now, do you know what this is?
MARISHA: I have an idea. It's a fan.
TALIESIN: It is a fan.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: So only use it-- try to use it only once a day.
MARISHA: Okay
TALIESIN: Be careful with it. Now, just hold it and--
LIAM: Just fan yourself.
TALIESIN: I wouldn't fan-- well--
TRAVIS: (explosion sound)
(laughter)
TRAVIS: (low scream)
MATT: (neck breaking sound)
TRAVIS: Finish her!
MARISHA: I clack it.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
SAM: (gun cocking)
LIAM: Peace was never an option.
TALIESIN: See that sea gull right over there?
MARISHA: Oh, that's mean, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: You don't even know what it does.
SAM: (cawing noises)
MARISHA: (whoosh)
MATT: (muffled explosion)
You just see a spray of feathers as it-- (thudding)
TALIESIN: Would it do that much?
It's Gust of Wind.
MATT: Gust of Wind is, I believe, a 2nd-level spell.
TALIESIN: Oh no.
SAM: (gun cocking)
LAURA: The Wild Mother's going to be so pissed at you.
MATT: Yeah, a line of strong wind
60 feet long and 10 feet wide
blasts from you in a direction you choose for the spell's
duration for one minute.
So right now it's like-- (rushing wind)
MARISHA: Oh, it's just going?
MATT: It's just going.
ASHLEY: Put it up to the sails.
MATT: Each creature in the line
has to succeed in a saving throw
or be pushed 15 feet away from you every round.
It disperses gas or vapor, extinguishes candle, torches,
similar types of flames in the area. It doesn't do any real
damage, but to a creature that is made mostly
of feathers-- it didn't kill it,
but you see it splash in the water
and it's still in the water, like--
MARISHA: Caduceus, could you help it?
TALIESIN: Yeah, yep, hold on.
LIAM: The Mighty Nein does not like animals.
MARISHA: Oh this is pretty cool, though. I...
turn to the sails, do it again.
MATT: So as a bonus action, you can change
the direction of it.
MARISHA: Oh, I can?
MATT: Yeah.
So you turn-- once you do it,
it creates it for concentration a minute in that direction
Then as a bonus action each turn
you can shift the direction of it.
MARISHA: I take the fan and I, like, just use
it to guide the stream.
MATT: Okay.
The sail picks up even heavier and for
the next minute that it lasts,
there's a little bit of a burst of speed to it,
I guess you could say. Though, from a physics standpoint...
Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Yeah. Sure.
MARISHA: I will keep-- I have to keep.
Yeah, would it be stationary
or would it be relative to the boat?
MATT: I would say it's relative to the boat location.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it can be used more
than once, but try and only use
it once a day because it will fall apart.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's very pretty rickety.
TALIESIN: I did cast a healing spell on that poor bird.
MATT: Okay.
(chuckles)
TALIESIN: Oh man, that was that
was more than I was expecting.
MATT: Feathers appear from outside of its--
TALIESIN: Sorry, that was really unintentional.
MATT: (bird cawing)
TALIESIN: That's fair.
No-- wow, really?
Rude. Rude.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Thanks, Caduceus. Should I owe you any money
for this?
TALIESIN: Nah.
MARISHA: You sure?
TALIESIN: Of course not.
Yeah.
MARISHA: How awesome do I look with it?
ASHLEY: It's really pretty cool.
I feel like it really completes the whole ensemble.
MARISHA: Pull out my staff, too.
ASHLEY: Yeah, there it is.
TALIESIN: Yeah, there you are.
LAURA: Pull up a star, too.
(laughter)
LIAM: Now smoke a pipe as well.
MARISHA: Orly!
MATT: "Mm-hmm."
MARISHA: Hold a pipe up to me.
LAURA: I'm going to draw it.
MATT: Stomps off.
MARISHA: Ooh, and I put my leg up on a cask.
Just like Captain Morgan.
MATT: Comes back five minutes later
with a little tobacco box
and, like, sets it up, opens it, takes some tobacco
and puts it in this long wooden pipe
with this thin stem at end. He goes.
MARISHA: Arms are hurting.
MATT: "Here you go."
LAURA: Stay like that for, like, 30 minutes,
I want to get this really detailed.
LIAM: Commemorate the moment.
TALIESIN: Actually I--
TRAVIS: (whistles)
SAM: Oh! Tusktooth is calling us!
TALIESIN: Caleb.
MARISHA: No!
LAURA: Come on, come on. Hold on, captain.
TRAVIS: What are you doing?
MARISHA: She's doing a portrait.
LAURA: I'm doing a really good portrait!
TRAVIS: You are supposed to be
an example to the crew in my absence.
What is this?
MARISHA: This is a glowing example!
Look at what-- look at-- this is dope!
TRAVIS: Glowing?
LIAM: I cast Dancing Lights around Beauregard.
(laughter)
LAURA: I add that to the drawing.
Remarkable.
MATT: It's pretty epic.
TALIESIN: Veth, Caleb. I picked this up in town, too.
Maybe between the two of you, you can figure out--
SAM: What is it?
TALIESIN: It's-- I don't know. It's a locked box.
Might be trapped, might be weird, I don't know.
SAM: I don't know;
when I open these, I die.
LAURA: Check for traps.
SAM: Okay. Checking for traps!
MATT: Investigation check.
TALIESIN: d4.
LAURA: Keep holding it!
SAM: Plus a d4. Okay.
Investigation?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: 25.
MATT: 25.
It is not trapped.
LIAM: Wait, hold on.
SAM: It's good.
LIAM: Uh.
Just set it on the ground for a moment.
SAM: I drop it.
TALIESIN: (explosions)
MATT: Distant shot of the ship (explosion).
Just the whole Akira shot.
LIAM: I will spend 10 minutes and ritually cast Detect Magic
on it.
MATT: Okay.
So you guys wait patiently while
you're finishing your artwork.
LIAM: Right.
MATT: Orly starts playing his bagpipes in the background.
LAURA: Keep your arms up.
MATT: (bagpipe playing) Just keeping the
whole ensemble unique.
SAM: You run a tight ship here, Tusktooth.
We got painting. We got--
TRAVIS: I'm very rusty.
How are we doing with the rest of the armada?
Are we actually, like, speeding up?
MATT: Well, for that brief instant, you sped up
a little bit, but--
TRAVIS: I don't think it works that way, either, actually.
I thought about it.
MATT: Yeah. I don't think--
TRAVIS: Your instinct was right.
MATT: Yeah, it wouldn't have made much of a difference.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
How do we do, how does our ship do-- minus the fan--
with the rest of the armada? Half, like, kind of average?
MATT: About average. I mean, the slowest ship
is just a standard sailing ship, which can go about
48 miles in a day.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: So that's the pace everyone's
moving together.
But
the slower ships can go,
the ones that are heavier can go even slower there,
so you're moving about, I'd say, 30 to 35 miles a day.
The whole armada keeping up with itself.
TRAVIS: Blue Heaven out towards the peak,
or in the middle, or bringing up the rear?
MATT: The Blue Heaven's in the center of it.
TRAVIS: Got it.
MATT: And a few ships adjacent to it is the
the Wind of Aeons.
TRAVIS: Got it.
Just going to keep an eye on those.
MATT: Understood.
You finish casting Detect Magic and
there is a magical aura from the inside.
LIAM: Is it abjuration?
MATT: For this, it would be--
hold on just a second.
It's two small sources.
One is
faintly conjuration.
TALIESIN: ♪ Faintly conjuration. ♪
MATT: The other--
TRAVIS: Nope. That's not a song.
MATT: -- is transmutation.
LAURA: Ooh!
LIAM: Okay, I don't know.
SAM: Should I pick the lock? Should we dispel some magic?
Ooh! Yashie can--
Wait, does your sword still dispel magic or does that not--
ASHLEY: Yeah, but I'm not--
I have my other one right now. I could switch them out.
LIAM: There also could be a good chance
of destroying the box, though.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
How much did you spend on this, Caduceus?
TRAVIS: I don't remember.
LIAM: Could you do it from a bit back?
SAM: Sure, yeah!
LIAM: I think everybody should get away from it
while Veth does her thing.
ASHLEY: Maybe open it out?
SAM: Sure.
LIAM: Okay.
So we'll make a nice wide ring around the box.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Tusktooth, should I not do this on the ship?
I mean, is this okay, do I have--
Captain, permission to pick the lock!
TRAVIS: Excellent. Permission granted.
SAM: Aye aye.
All right.
TALIESIN: He's gone mad with power.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: I'll put it
right at the front of the ship where the,
I guess, I presume the lady is at the front of the ship.
Do we have one of those?
LAURA: Yeah, we do.
SAM: Okay, cool.
MATT: There you go.
SAM: Right on top of her and I'll cast Mage Hand
and I will pick the lock.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: d4.
SAM: (sharp inhale)
LAURA: (laughs)
Do you get the advantage? Did we give you advantage on it?
SAM: No.
Technically, I can reroll that, but I'm not going to.
LIAM: You have to, halfling, you have to!
LAURA: Do it! You do.
SAM: I don't have to.
LIAM: It's the rule!
SAM: The rule is I can.
MATT: The rule is he can.
LAURA: Come on!
LIAM: Addicted to story.
SAM: What is this? Sleight of Hand?
Don't worry, I've got Reliable Talent,
LAURA: But you still rolled a one.
SAM: I did.
MATT: But it was a 10 because of a Reliable Talent.
SAM: I know, that's up to the DM to rule, but it's--
do I also add the plus four-- or the d4?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: So it's 26 on a natural one.
MATT: On a natural one!
TALIESIN: Wow!
TRAVIS: Don't worry, husband, I'll be right back.
ASHLEY: How?!
MATT: Rogues get, eventually,
an ability called Reliable Talent,
where they technically can't roll
lower than 10 on an ability check.
LIAM: Although, in campaign one, I was always--
I was just taking the ones when they came. I don't know why.
Well, it led to the walk of shame.
LAURA: Oh, that's amazing!
MATT: Well, given certain circumstances--
LIAM: It was the best.
MATT: You get to let a one go.
Reliable Talent is when you're intending to succeed.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: That's enough.
Carefully. You watch the box teeter
and almost with some of the wind that blows through,
it begins to teeter drops off to the side
about to fall into the water.
SAM: (yells)
MATT: You're like, "Ah!" You catch it,
bring it back, and ever so carefully (clicking) (creaking)
and the top lid opens up slightly as the lock itself
opens and sticks out slightly.
LAURA: Bring it over! What does it do?
SAM: I will bring it over and I will present it to everyone.
MATT: All right.
You look on the inside. There are some faint,
I want to say it's like dirt or ash that's
on the inside, like, an element of packing
what was inside, but rolled up tightly,
it looks like it's a piece of paper,
or some sort of parchment about a foot long.
SAM: A foot long?
TRAVIS: Someone was here already,
TALIESIN: Someone ordered a sandwich.
MATT: It's an IOU for what was in there, yeah.
LAURA: Should I pick it up and read it?
SAM: Yeah, read it!
LAURA: Do you want to read it because you bought it?
TALIESIN: I'm bad at public reading, so it's fine.
SAM: You should go to Toastmasters.
LAURA: What does it say?
TALIESIN: Thinking about it.
MATT: There are two scrolls in there
that contain two different arcane spells.
ALL: Whoa!
MATT: One of which is the 2nd-level spell, Flaming Sphere.
ALL: Ooh!
MATT: The second one of which is Telekinesis.
LAURA: Ooh!
SAM: Single-use scrolls?
MATT: Single-use.
TRAVIS: Motherfucking Telekinesis?!
LAURA: If he puts them in his book,
it's a-lot-of-use scrolls, right?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Well, I know one of those, so.
LAURA: Which one do you know?
LIAM: I have a Flaming Sphere in my repertoire.
LAURA: Do you want a fire sphere?
Here, you take it!
TALIESIN: I don't need a fire sphere.
LIAM: And only--
Who can use that? Only Veth and I,
or could the clerics use it?
MATT: Once you gain a level,
then there are some points
where you can choose spells from other classes.
You could take that one.
SAM: I mean, I can use it as a single-use whenever.
MATT: Oh, as a single-use, you could, yeah.
LIAM: Yeah, that's what I meant.
TALIESIN: But we couldn't use that as single-use.
MATT: Um.
ASHLEY: Can anybody?
MATT: I'll double check on that.
TRAVIS: ♪ Goodness gracious,
♪ great balls of fire ♪
LAURA: Here is your Telekinesis-ness.
MATT: Been a while since we've--
LIAM: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Here's a Flaming Sphere.
SAM: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Spend it all in one place.
MARISHA: Good buy!
LAURA: That was very kind of you, Caduceus!
TALIESIN: I mean, what else are you going to do with money?
MARISHA and LIAM: Goodbye.
TRAVIS: That's all I heard.
MARISHA: (door shutting)
TRAVIS: (low-pitched) Boop boop.
LIAM: Learn.
MATT: "If the spell is on your class' spell list."
So not everybody.
LAURA: Oh.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we couldn't do it at all.
I don't think you ever (mumbling).
I know I don't.
MATT: So, technically, you could
because it is something you could pull.
I would allow it, given the fact that is--
while it's not on your initial list,
because at certain points you can choose any other class,
I'll say, since it's a one-use scroll,
I'd allow you to use it.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: Since you are
one who's also learning from Caleb
as you go along.
SAM: Great.
LIAM: Yeah!
MARISHA: Cool.
That's a good spell.
SAM: Good purchase.
LIAM: Well, once we get back to civilization
and I can buy some high-quality paper and ink,
I will be able to use that spell.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: Excellent.
ASHLEY: I love it so much.
LAURA: (laughs)
TALIESIN: Ah!
MATT: So we'll just continue here.
Day one.
Day two.
If there's anything you want to do during this trip,
as I progress through the days,
MATT: jump in.
MARISHA: How's the weather looking?
MATT: First couple days,
clear, open blue skies, dotted bits of white cloud,
but very minimal and isolated.
Otherwise, it's perfect sailing weather.
Nice and warm, the occasional ocean spray giving
a cool balance to that.
Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm going to make a
pillow fort in the crow's nest.
LAURA: I spend a lot of time carving little figures
of the Traveler.
MATT: Okay. Cool.
LAURA: So many, so many little figurines of the Traveler.
I'm really tired of making figurines of the Traveler.
MATT: Fair enough.
Day three comes with a heavier...
marine layer fog
that hangs over a good part of the day.
Burns off slightly as the afternoon kicks in.
But still, the clouds are a little more there.
MARISHA: I go over to Jester.
That's a lot of figures.
LAURA: Yeah.
I figure everybody should get one
when they come to the con.
MARISHA: It's pretty good.
LAURA: Yeah.
My mom, you know, whenever she hosts parties,
everybody gets to go home with something.
So I figure it would be nice.
MARISHA: You know, I still have this jeweler's kit.
I think it has some, like, leftover stuff.
I've just had this thing. I don't know,
maybe we can make a few that are, like, necklaces
or fancy ones for the high ranking members.
LAURA: Oh my gosh, we can use
some of the leftover jewel dust
and sprinkle it on some of them, make them real sparkly.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's dope.
LAURA: That's really awesome.
That is such a good idea, Beau.
MARISHA: I sit down and I help Jester make some
fancy ones and put some on chains.
MATT: Okay, so day three, you're helping Jester with crafts.
LAURA: We're crafting.
MATT: Fair enough.
TALIESIN: The best part of D&D was the absence of
glitter in that world and you've now ruined that.
LAURA: Oh yeah.
It's like the gem dust. You can't get it off.
It will always be...
TALIESIN: Goddamn it.
MARISHA: It's like, something got in my eye.
And now it looks like a kaleidoscope, everywhere I look.
MATT: About 10 years down the road,
you're just going to have this terrible growth.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: (groans)
MATT: So this is going to be a number of days at sea.
So if there's anything you want to accomplish,
any conversations you want to have, any check-ins, anything.
You guys are a captive audience here on this boat
as you're watching the Armada,
so if there's anything you want to keep an eye out for,
if there's anything you want to discuss.
Day four comes around.
LAURA: I make sure Sprinkle's doing good.
MARISHA: (laughs)
TALIESIN: Oh wow, I forgot!
LAURA: Yeah.
He really didn't have a
good time on the ocean before,
so I'm just checking every once a while to make sure.
TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Give me a viking death.
(laughter)
SAM: (high-pitched) Bury me at sea.
TALIESIN: Keeping an eye out.
LIAM: (high-pitched) Oh look, a plank!
MATT: Sprinkle is much happier since having the bath
that was last given. Very unhappy being so clean at the time
because there was an element of, you know, natural oils
and stuff that keep to it, but seems to be having a better
time on the sea this time than the previous journey,
by and large. Fourth day,
cloud cover takes the entire day.
The marine layer brings with it some actual clouds,
nothing rain worthy, but at least the blue skies
for this day have faded.
MARISHA: Yasha?
ASHLEY: Yeah?
MARISHA: Can you still sense the weather and shit?
ASHLEY: I mean, I never really could sense the weather.
I think I would just...
I feel like the rain and lightning would sometimes find me.
But I don't-- you know...
MARISHA: Is this your fault?
Did you do this?
ASHLEY: I don't think so, but it's very possible.
MARISHA: Last time we were on this boat,
you fought an invisible,
like, storm monster.
And we all just watched. It was real crazy.
ASHLEY: Yeah, that was a little crazy.
MARISHA: I still don't know if we really could have gotten
that full side of the story. Do you know what that was?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I-- well, I mean...
LAURA: It was like a lightning beast.
ASHLEY: It was a lightning beast.
But I think it was...
TALIESIN: Very very frightening.
ASHLEY: It was very frightening, but I think it was sort
of a lesson for me
from...
the Storm Lord.
MARISHA: Do you think...
he's going to teach you any more lessons?
Is this, like, an ongoing course?
Or do you think now that you're free from Obann that...
you've broken away?
LAURA: Yeah, are you talking to him more and stuff now?
ASHLEY: I mean, not really. I guess I should.
I feel like you are so close
with talking with the Traveler, but...
I don't know if I want to be that close.
LAURA: Well, now we know why I am so close, you know?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: How are you feeling about that?
LAURA: Oh.
MARISHA: That's a good question.
LAURA: Can I be honest?
MARISHA: Yeah, we were just crafting.
It's the perfect time to be honest.
LAURA: That's true.
Yasha, do you want to craft?
MARISHA: We're making necklaces.
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay.
LAURA: Come and sit down. Sit down.
ASHLEY: Just smush the clay.
(smushing)
LAURA: I don't know how I feel about it.
You know? Like, at first, I guess I felt a little
betrayed, if that's the right word.
You know? Like,
I spent a long time thinking he was a god
and he never told me otherwise.
I mean, but at the end of the day, you know,
he's been one of my best friends.
He got me through a lot of really terrible times and
you know?
If this is what he needs now, then
then I'll help him.
ASHLEY: That's very nice of you.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: I feel like I would have a very different reaction.
MARISHA: Yeah, same.
We're very protective of you.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: And defensive.
You know, so
if we ever come across as assholes,
it's only out of love.
LAURA: Aw.
I know that.
Hey, you know, I mean, and I know you think he might be
a little strange. I see the way you talk to him.
But
he, you know, he gives me really good powers.
You know, it's not like,
I'm just like worshiping this guy
and he's just like, "Yeah."
He's, like, "Okay, yeah, here's a whole bunch of
"really cool spells."
ASHLEY: So he, yeah, but
you were saying I feel like a lot of that power is in you.
I mean, how much of that is he actually giving you?
I mean, don't you already just have it?
LAURA: I don't--
I don't know how that works. I don't remember--
I don't remember being able to do anything fun
like that before I met him.
But, to be honest, I've never really tried.
MARISHA: Hmm.
Maybe he just showed you the path.
LAURA: Maybe, but isn't that enough?
If he woke it up in me, then.
MARISHA: I think it's
nice to acknowledge it.
But, you know, give yourself some credit, too
for the accomplishments that you've made
completely on your own.
LAURA: That's true, I did design some really good clothes.
Well, that wasn't on my own. That was with Caduceus.
He is really stylish.
MARISHA: Yeah. Thank you for my suit. That was great.
ASHLEY: That suit was pretty cool. Thank you for the dress.
I really liked it.
The slit was very high, but.
MARISHA: You looked great.
LAURA: You've got really good legs, Yasha.
I just wanted to show them off.
ASHLEY: Oh, thanks!
Well, I mean, it's--
it helped with moving around, you know?
LAURA: Yeah. Plus, I mean,
MARISHA: Mm!
LAURA: -- too, in my defense,
I kind of underestimated your height,
so I was thinking the slit would be a little lower on you.
ASHLEY: Yeah, because it did go way up here. It's fine.
LAURA: It's a good thing you don't wear underwear!
ASHLEY: Yeah, no, I know!
LIAM: Canon.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah.
SAM: Fire?
TRAVIS: No, no! No!
SAM: Ready?!
TRAVIS: No!
ASHLEY: I take a little bite of the clay.
LAURA: Oh, that's not-- it's not probably not very tasty.
ASHLEY: But I heard sometimes it tastes a little salty.
MARISHA: Yeah, what it taste like? Is it good?
ASHLEY: Yeah, it's, like, it's a little salty, you know.
LAURA: It's like mud?
ASHLEY: Did you ever try it?
MARISHA: I try a little corner.
LAURA: I try it.
TALIESIN: We're at sea, everything's salty.
TRAVIS: No!
LAURA: Tastes like--
MARISHA: I do feel like I was, like, my, you know,
we've been on the ocean so, like, my, you know,
electrolytes are a little depleted. That's kind of nice.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: I don't like it.
I don't like it!
MARISHA: Hmm.
ASHLEY: You can split it out.
(laughter)
Mush it back in.
This will be a very special one.
Whoever get this one.
MARISHA: What about you, Yasha?
ASHLEY: What about me?
LAURA: Deflection, deflection, deflection.
ASHLEY: I don't like talking about myself very much, but.
LAURA: No, but really, okay, so.
Before we left, Caleb mentioned the thing, like,
he made a joke of it, of you in the pit.
But it's not really a joke, is it?
ASHLEY: I mean, I thought
maybe I would feel better after that,
but it didn't--
it didn't really help.
Like, I think it was only satisfying
for a very brief moment.
And, I guess, maybe I thought that
maybe I should--
I don't know, that's a little dark, but.
LAURA: You should what?
ASHLEY: I think because I'm--
I don't know, I guess I thought maybe I should just die
for every person that I've killed or something.
But that's obviously not going to help anything.
LAURA: It won't, because,
you know,
think of all the good you're going to be able to do now.
If you died, it would just end with the bad.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
All you guys are very wonderful and
have made me feel
a lot better about the choices that I've made
and some of the choices that I have not made.
MARISHA: That must be a weird experience.
A lot of people,
you know, kind of like the issue with Essek,
he consciously made a lot of those choices.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: That's not you, there is a big difference.
I think so, but still, it's
a hard thing to try to forgive yourself for.
I hurt you pretty bad,
and that makes me feel very, very terrible.
MARISHA: Oh, that, pfft. (stammering)
Don't worry, don't worry about it.
(laughter)
LAURA: Plus, her scars look pretty cool.
MARISHA: Yeah, it just, like, it just adds to my aesthetic.
It's great. It makes me a little bit more interesting
of a person.
ASHLEY: I mean, you're already very, very interesting.
You're both very interesting.
Like, you know.
MARISHA: What do you think will help make you feel better?
You know?
ASHLEY: I don't know yet.
I mean,
I think just being around you guys has been
help in itself.
But I guess I'll find that out. I mean,
I've seen so many things that I never thought I would see.
LAURA: Like the ocean?
ASHLEY: Yeah!
MARISHA: I've really missed it.
I'm not going to lie.
I really like being on the boat.
LAURA: Maybe when everything's done,
you can be a pirate for real!
Or, you know, an actual ship captain.
MARISHA: But, like, a spy pirate.
How awesome is that?!
LAURA: Spy pirate is pretty cool.
LIAM: Spirate.
MARISHA: Yeah,
I can still, you know, work with the Cobalt Reserve, but--
ASHLEY: On the sea?
MARISHA: Yeah, an international waters branch.
LAURA: Ooh!
ASHLEY: That'd be pretty cool.
Yeah.
MARISHA: Hmm.
I think this one's going to be mine.
LAURA: Oh!
That's, like, really big, Beau.
MARISHA: I deliberately made it huge.
LAURA: You're going to be almost the highest priestess.
MARISHA: Oh, is it, like, based on size? Oh.
LAURA: I mean, I'm not going to have--
mine's just going to real sparkly.
I'm working on it.
MARISHA: Because I don't want to, like, inflate my position
if, like, the bigger means like--
LAURA: No, no, no. You guys,
we're all going to be super high priests and priestesses.
ASHLEY: This is becoming such a performance.
It's fun.
LAURA: I'm not exactly sure what we're doing yet, but
it'll present itself on the day, yeah.
ASHLEY: It'll be pretty great.
Wait, Nott!
SAM: Oy!
LAURA: Veth.
ASHLEY: Veth.
SAM: Oh.
ASHLEY: I'm sorry, it's just habit.
SAM: Yeah. No, that's fair. It'll take me a while, too.
ASHLEY: I-- do you--
Do you know how to swim?
SAM: Ah, no.
ASHLEY: Oh, we need to fix that.
SAM: Nope!
No, we don't need to.
MARISHA: I gave her, like, one lesson once and she, like,
never came back to do it again.
Maybe you'll do better.
SAM: Do you know how to swim?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: Where did you learn?
LAURA: Yeah, how did you learn how to swim?
ASHLEY: There's, you know, some
bodies of water
up there. We would have to bathe and things like that.
Not super deep or anything like that,
but I know how to float.
I know how to get from one side to the other.
And I could teach you.
SAM: Do you know different, different strokes?
LAURA: I know different strokes.
ASHLEY: For different folks? Yeah.
SAM: Whatchu talkin' 'bout?
(laughter)
SAM: I mean, when would I need to know that, though?
And why would I need to know all that?
LAURA: What if we get in a big
pirate battle and our ship sinks
and then we're in the ocean?
SAM: I can walk on water.
LAURA: What if your ring falls off?
What if your hand explodes off?
SAM: Ahh!
LAURA: It could happen. I almost lost both my hands.
ASHLEY: It's just good to know how.
LAURA: (silly sound)
SAM: Well, I guess if we dock somewhere,
you could teach me a lesson.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: I wouldn't mind-- I guess I wouldn't mind learning.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I think it would
be really good for you to know
how to swim, just in case.
SAM: Fjord, would you-- Fjord! I'm sorry. Captain!
Captain Tusktooth.
TRAVIS: Oh! Yes?
SAM: Powder Monkey Veth here.
If I were to do a swimming lesson,
would you control the water around me
and sort of make it so that I can't drown?
TRAVIS: Absolutely not. It's sink or swim,
but what I would do is allow you to breathe underwater
just in case things weren't going your way.
ASHLEY: No.
SAM: What do you mean, "No"?
ASHLEY: How are you going to learn if you have help?
You have to learn how to do it yourself.
LAURA: But at least, you know,
it will teach her how to move in the water.
TRAVIS: There's a fair difference between-- well, I mean,
at port is not so bad, actually.
What, are we throwing her out on a rope behind the ship?
SAM: No!
TRAVIS: While we're moving? Is that what you want to do?
SAM: Sounds like torture.
TRAVIS: I think it's a great idea.
TALIESIN: I was just coming by. Did
someone say they needed rope?
I've got so much rope. We doing something?
LAURA: No, we're not doing that.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go back to playing with the wheel.
MARISHA: Wait! Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Oy! Rope?
MARISHA: I want to help you make some tea.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MARISHA: (shouts) Caleb?
LIAM: (quietly) Hmm?
MARISHA: (still shouting) Were you napping?
LIAM: No, I'm standing three feet away from you.
(laughter)
MARISHA: (normal volume) Do you want some tea?
LIAM: Of course I want some tea. Thank you.
MARISHA: I'm going to go help Caduceus make tea.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: We'll table the swim lessons for now.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: This is the weirdest metaphor
for learning how to drive
stick shift I've ever sat through.
(laughter)
You never know.
LIAM: I walk over to where the captain is.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: (clears throat)
Captain.
TRAVIS: What is your position on this ship?
What do you...?
LIAM: I am the navigator.
TRAVIS: Navigator.
Oh, that's right, you know where the fuck you
are at all times.
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yes?
LIAM: What is this part of the ship called again?
TRAVIS: Where are we?
LIAM: At the front?
TRAVIS: Yeah, this is the bow.
LIAM: The bow.
Good to know.
TRAVIS: Is that right? I think that's right.
(laughter)
MATT: That is correct.
LIAM: You know, despite your--
TRAVIS: ♪ The bow of a ship headed for a new land! ♪
LIAM: Despite your act as nervousness about shipping terms
right now, I can't help but notice that you seem
more at ease out here.
TRAVIS: A little bit.
LIAM: Yeah?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
I mean, it helps that you all know a little bit more.
I don't quite feel the pressure to pretend like I know
everything because I don't
and we've all leaned on each other rather well so yeah.
LIAM: You are very...
different
than when I first met you.
Accent aside.
TRAVIS: That's fair. That's fair.
LIAM: It's curious to me because,
you know, we are sailing off to something very intense
and
Beauregard and I and Veth have very
personal stakes in this and...
Caduceus is here because he sees some sort of
grand plan in everything we do.
Jester is like the glue of this
group of weirdos that we are
and Yasha
I have never met anyone who craved a family so much.
But, you...
You know, I brought up the other day
that sword you held up to my neck.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: That seems so long ago.
I was very untrustworthy. I am very untrustworthy.
You were you were founded in your actions that day, but...
you are far more--
you were darker then and
this new place you're in.
I know you're still finding your footing, but
it is admirable.
What you're doing, you're here out in the middle of nowhere,
trying to help broker peace between two countries
neither of which you are from.
And we'd like to think of Caduceus as the only--
as the most selfless in our party.
But you're no slouch yourself.
TRAVIS: Thank you. That means a lot.
I realize darker is probably a very apt term. I would--
I would probably call it more full of it.
That sword and everything that came with it
was really the first
sense of control I've had in my life,
or the ability to control others
or even just affect a situation and
I think with a little bit of reflection,
I'm starting to realize that
maybe I thought that the way to
enforce or
shepherd others was through darkness or force or threats.
LIAM: Control is a tempting thing.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
It didn't feel good.
I stopped you in that moment and then I felt terrible.
I didn't know if that meant that control
meant feeling terrible all the time
or if there was something wrong with the way that
that exchange went.
That and a million other things led to me
realizing I don't have to do things that way,
I don't have to do things in the way that were done to me.
LIAM: I understand you.
TRAVIS: Of course you do.
Of course you do.
I don't know if I, um...
if I'm more comfortable if maybe I just care a bit less
and I think that's the better place for me to be.
I don't know if I'll ever be comfortable
with any of this, but
small
things help.
Watching over you in Rexxentrum, making sure that
Jester can do whatever she needs to do with this entity.
Watching Beau go back to her family,
watching Yasha come back, watching Veth.
This is more life than I ever thought I would see.
Every day is like a new page
in what I thought was going to be a terribly
boring and repetitive book and it's not. So...
Yeah.
LIAM: You know,
these people that we are dealing with. My people.
There are good people in the Empire, but
these are not them.
They are dangerous.
And you are
selflessly
putting yourself in a very dangerous spot
for very bad people.
I...
I was one of them, Fjord.
He sort of grips the railing the ship
and looks to
see where everybody else is.
Particularly Jester,
and when he realizes that they're well enough away--
A long time ago you asked me
about myself
and I just never answered.
I value this family, Fjord,
because I killed my own,
for these people that we are going to deal with.
You understand me?
My own.
And um... I'm ruined.
But...
I take comfort in the fact that I have a chance to do
something to make up for it.
And I'm very grateful for these people.
And you. You're a good friend
and I felt like that needed to be said out loud.
I'm glad you're here.
TRAVIS: I admit I can't even begin to fathom what you're
experiencing all this must be like.
I never knew my family and whatever story I tell myself
about them in no way compares to
what I know you have gone through.
I know that.
You are a good friend.
I know you've done terrible things, but I see a good man.
I do.
It's part of the reason I decided to just try
and be one myself and not someone else.
You and I have very similar journeys
and vastly different backgrounds.
These people,
your people,
have we even scratched the surface of what they can do?
LIAM: I really don't think so.
TRAVIS: What are they waiting for?
LIAM: The moment where they can ascend.
TRAVIS: Do you think they mean to empower the Empire,
raise it above the Dynasty, or is there
a chance that they are trying to do more?
LIAM: It is definitely to raise the power of the Empire
for they are the Empire.
But my teacher...
They serve a king, but
they serve themselves.
They always have.
They will do anything
to maintain and improve their position.
TRAVIS: They certainly don't seem
to be the tightest of groups.
Seems to be some small fracturing.
LIAM: No, and even one or two in the pack who are
fine,
but the Martinet is dangerous.
Ikithon is dangerous.
So are my old friends.
TRAVIS: You know, in my town when a
terrible storm would come in,
it wasn't because you could see it or feel it.
Sometimes, it was just noticing the animals around you
starting to act differently.
I keep an eye on you when we're around these people.
I have no idea what they're capable of
or what the signs are.
If your eyes are on them, our eyes are on you.
LIAM: I will try not to let you down.
TRAVIS: We're behind you.
LIAM: Do you remember when we almost sank our own ship?
TRAVIS: Which time?
(soft laughter)
LIAM: Good point.
MARISHA: Caleb, tea.
Fjord, tea.
TRAVIS: What?
MARISHA: There you go.
TRAVIS: I didn't ask for--
MARISHA: We just made a bunch. Don't worry about it.
LIAM: Like civilized people.
TRAVIS: What is that smell?
MARISHA: Ask Caduceus.
TRAVIS: Oh, I-- I will.
TALIESIN: It's saffron and mushroom. Why?
TRAVIS: No, it's lovely.
MATT: (chuckles)
LIAM: Is this made from anyone you knew?
TALIESIN: Uhh.
No, I can definitely-- I mean, not personally, no.
TALIESIN: I mean, definitely somebody that I buried.
That's what I carry, but I didn't actually know.
They came dead to the temple.
LIAM: (chokes) Very good.
Good.
ASHLEY: Dead people taste so good.
TALIESIN: I think so.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah, they do.
TALIESIN: Tea?
ASHLEY: No, I-- Yes, more, please.
MATT: Day three goes on
(laughter)
uneventful at sea comparatively,
though the gray skies are comforting as they remind you of
the better times growing up in the Empire.
Day four comes in, sky is still gray.
To the east, a cold wind begins to pick up
and it looks to be a storm coming; nothing too heavy,
but looks like rain is probably imminent.
MARISHA: Captain!
TRAVIS: Yes?
MARISHA: It appears a storm's a-coming.
TRAVIS: Why does your voice change
every time we're on this ship?
MARISHA: I'm assertive!
Veth is doing it, too!
TRAVIS: No.
MARISHA: She's talking weird.
TRAVIS: She's really not.
She's just very gung-ho about her job.
It's-- she's very excited.
MARISHA: I'm gung-ho about my job as your first mate!
TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I get it. What was your-- What were you--
MARISHA: Storms a-brewin', Captain!
LIAM: Off the coast of Maine!
TRAVIS: I can see that.
Any recommendations, First Mate?
MARISHA: Well, as they say
a red sky at night--
TRAVIS: It's not red.
MARISHA: -- is a sailor's delight.
TRAVIS: It's gray out.
MARISHA: And a red--
A gray sky in the morning is a sailor's warning.
That's what I read in a book.
TRAVIS: I don't know if that's true,
but it's pretty fucking good.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: It sounds better.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Yes.
MARISHA: That's it. That's all I have to report!
TRAVIS: Great. Make ready to ship for inclement weather.
MATT: Orly comes over.
MARISHA: Orly.
MATT: "(throat clearing) Captain."
TRAVIS: Yes, Orly? Ah!
MATT: "Looks like we're coming up
"on the Inkclaw Reef.
"Going to keep north of it so we don't
"get dragged under."
LAURA: Hey. What--
TRAVIS: Inkclaw Reef.
TALIESIN: Aye, Captain.
TRAVIS: Yes, no, yep. Continue your course. Yep.
Fucking-- oh, there it is.
TALIESIN: Steady as she goes.
MARISHA: Is it with an 'A'?
SAM: Do we know where we're going?
MARISHA: Inkclaw.
MATT: No, you're following the armada,
which you know is largely where it's going.
TALIESIN: I feel like we were supposed to
get off at the last overpass.
TRAVIS: We're heading south.
MATT: Yeah, you guys heading south-southeast.
Inkclaw Reef is actually around Urukayxl,
the island where the serpent folk were,
but you guys are skirting,
you're skirting north past the Reef,
and heading that direction. The armada itself is
arranging course appropriately.
You can all see the ships start
taking a little more of a separation
in preparation for the coming storm, in case the waves
get choppy, you don't want the ships too close together and
smashing into each other.
But yeah,
MARISHA: Orly, I have to--
MATT: "Mm-hmm?"
MARISHA: -- ready the ship for problematic weather.
What I do? Don't tell the captain.
MATT: "Ooh, well.
"M-M-Maybe it's best we
"get you together with
"M-M-Marius.
"He'll you show you around."
MARISHA: I have to work with Marius?
That guy sucks. All right.
TRAVIS: Beau!
MARISHA: What.
TRAVIS: Take Shelda with you.
MARISHA: (groans)
TALIESIN: I'm getting everything I paid for.
MARISHA: Yes, Captain.
TRAVIS: Where's that voice?
MARISHA: (exaggerated) Yes, Captain!
MATT: All right.
Preparing the ship for the storm, getting the sails ready,
battening down the hatches.
TALIESIN: Hatches battened.
TRAVIS: I just wanted somebody to say it.
MATT: Yeah.
But the evening comes. The rain does begin
to kick in a little ways into sunset.
It is a strong rain.
TRAVIS: Ooh.
MATT: So,
the evening
comes toward to all of you.
Mostly uneventful night.
I will say here.
There you go.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: Give me just second. I need to get all my
audio ducks in a row here.
LIAM: Way to date this episode.
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: "Way to date this episode"?
MATT: You hear it first.
SAM: Shit.
MATT: Catching your attention, Yasha.
LAURA: Oh no.
LIAM: Yaas!
MATT: A familiar
welcoming delight.
[thunder rumbling]
ALL: Ooh!
TRAVIS: What the fuck?!
SAM: There's lights and shit!
LIAM: (laughs)
MATT: As you hear it from through the wood,
laying in your bunk, and keep your eyes closed.
Eventually, the early, early morning hours
push you to rest,
the thunder lulling you to sleep.
Each of you find your way to your bunks as well, as
Orly takes over the ship
and the rest of the crew.
LAURA: Is it really rocky at this point?
MATT: It's pretty rocky back and forth.
For some, it's uncomfortable, for some it's almost
like being rocked as a baby.
In your early storm-based dreams,
the rumble brings with it
imagery of you once again lost
in the barren plains of Xhorhas.
All darkness but for the distant red horizon.
Your whole body is sore as you trudge through
the mud and muck. You can see the storm brewing ahead
and as you look down at your hands, you can see the shackles
that once bound your wrists,
chains dangling from them, now broken.
As you look up once, more you can see
the flash of light from the clouds above.
And there's expectation.
You look down ahead and warmly alit before you is a path,
red like the horizon itself.
Do you walk it?
TRAVIS: Ooh.
ASHLEY: Absolutely.
MATT: As you walk the path onward,
onward,
(crackling) a bolt of lightning hits the ground,
but 100 feet from you.
The sound deafens your ears as the blast echoes.
Your vision goes white for a moment,
but you keep pushing forward.
Another flash 40 feet from you,
sending shards of rock and glass showering
down from your left side.
Do you continue on the path?
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: Pushing forward, the rain begins to fall,
and pummeling you, turning to hail.
Your skin numb with the hundreds and hundreds of vast
and quick impacts.
(crackling) Another flash hits
the path directly in front of you
scattering it into a small chasm before you.
As you come close it seems to widen with each step.
The ground pulling further and further away until you come
to the very edge.
What do you do?
ASHLEY: I jump.
[thunder rolling]
MATT: You run and you leap.
As you leap, the other side continues to stretch away.
You fall,
and you fall,
and you fall.
And you look up as the wide mouth of this chasm
goes further and further away and looking up into the sky,
all you see are the electric eyes in the clouds.
What do you do?
ASHLEY: I
cry out to the Storm Lord.
And I reach out a hand.
MATT: What do you say?
ASHLEY: Please,
please help me.
MATT: (crackling) A bolt of lightning
strikes from the sky and hits you.
TRAVIS and SAM: Ooh.
MATT: Your entire body is rocked with pain.
This vibration of strength as to cause
every element of your senses to be rocked.
And you push through the pain as hard as you can
to continue to keep your contact with this cloud.
Go ahead and roll a wisdom saving throw for me.
ASHLEY: That's cocked.
Nine.
MATT: A nine.
TRAVIS and LAURA: (whispering) Nein!
ASHLEY: Sorry, a ten.
MATT: A ten.
Your muscles tense--
SAM: Nine plus one.
MATT: -- and you continue to plummet.
"Prove."
ASHLEY: I'm going to bamf out my wings.
LAURA: Yeah!
ASHLEY: Necrotic Shroud.
MATT: The pain through your body--
you can see the skin itself
splitting from where the energy required a place to escape.
As you close your eyes and scream
out loud into the darkness,
this chasm now a razor-thin mark
of red, clouded sky above.
Before the abyss takes you, you scream
and release the essence of the celestial blood
that sits in your veins.
And with that, the chasm grows closer,
and closer,
until you find yourself pushing out
from the opening in the ground,
where once you fell. Your feet resting once more on the path
on the other side.
As you stop and your wings gather around you,
they are not black,
but feathered.
TRAVIS: Ooh!
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: The voice once more says,
"You are worthy
"both of my guidance
"and of your own acceptance.
"This path before you is long,
"and I won't let you stray."
Fjord.
SAM: Ooh!
LAURA: (fake sobbing)
TRAVIS: What? What?
SAM: You also have wings.
MARISHA: The eye.
MATT: A night of restless sleep comes to you.
TRAVIS: (quietly) Fuck. Jesus fuck.
MATT: Whether it be the sound of the heavy rain hitting
the glass doors on the outside of your captain's quarters,
just the anxiety of the coming interaction,
but you toss and turn quite a bit.
But once sleep does take you, you have
visions of being
in a forest once more, not unlike the one
that you had traversed to help Caduceus find his family.
You're alone,
and you don't know where to go.
You travel a bit,
and it just continues
almost the same, like it's a repeating glade.
You push past trees.
The rain now falls through the top of the forest
and you hear the distant rumbles of thunder
carrying into the space.
[thunder rolling]
What do you do?
TRAVIS: Repeating forest. Thunder.
(loud knuckle cracking)
God, these are hard.
Ah...
I will summon the sword.
Can I sink it into the earth
and try and listen for the voice of the Wild Mother?
MATT: You summon the sword to your hand
and what stares back at you
is not the runed blade
that you found on this journey,
but the familiar,
curved falchion,
with a singular yellow eye looking back.
And you feel (pulsing)
a burning pain in your chest.
(pulsing) It burns even brighter and hotter
and suddenly it's a pain that is unbearable.
As you come to consciousness trying to scream,
but you're winded
as a dark figure stands over your bed
a blade plunged in your chest.
MARISHA and LAURA: (gasping)
SAM: Ooh?
Nani?
TRAVIS: The fucking girl!
MARISHA: Ooh, no!
MATT: You suffer
12 points of slashing damage, as well as
four points of psychic damage.
SAM: Not too terrible.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LAURA: It's a priest of Uk'otoa or something.
SAM and LAURA: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
MATT: As you lie there, the blade--
a familiar-looking, barnacle-encrusted falchion--
partially thrust into your abdomen.
The creature holding it appears humanoid before you--
TRAVIS: No.
MATT: -- but you see heavy, tattered robes,
and slivers of cloth. You see grayish-blue skin.
You see a humanoid face with long, thick tendrils of hair,
yellow eyes, and the jaw itself seemingly split partially
open and just breathing
like an exaggerated Predator.
[thunder rumbling]
Let's go ahead and roll initiative.
ALL: What?!
TRAVIS: What are you talking about?
(yelling)
SAM: This unexpected combat is
brought to you by Dwarven Forge.
They'll be at AdeptiCon this year, Booth 801.
Bring your armies and wage war
on the ultimate battlefield terrain.
Find more at DwarvenForge.com.
What is happening?!
LIAM: This is exciting!
(cheering)
LAURA: Where his cabin? Where's Fjord?
Where are the rest of us?
Is he in captain's quarters and the rest of us--?
SAM: Where's Yasha? Is Yasha flying out over the ocean?
LIAM: That was in her dreams.
LAURA: Yasha was having a--
ASHLEY: Yeah, it was just a dream.
SAM: I mean, those don't even look like boats, Matt.
MATT: So this is the gun deck.
MARISHA: Yeah, what is it? What is it?
MATT: This is the cargo hold beneath.
So top level, mid level, bottom level.
TRAVIS: Fjord is right here, right?
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: Mid level, bottom level, okay.
MARISHA: He said blue skin?
SAM: What is happening?
MARISHA: What the fuck is happening?
MATT: Fjord.
You are in bed.
While this creature here--
SAM: What does it look like?
LAURA: What is it? Does it look like Avantika?
MATT: I mean, it's what I am using for the creature.
LAURA: Does it look like dead Avantika?
MATT: No.
TRAVIS: That's not Avantika.
MATT: Where are you guys sleeping in the ship?
LAURA: I don't know!
Are these the only places to sleep?
TRAVIS: It has the sword.
SAM: I would be in a hammock between two cannons.
TRAVIS: I don't know.
MATT: Okay, so we'll put you over here.
TRAVIS: What the fucking horse nipples is happening?!
MATT: Out on the floor here?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: Is this the same morning
that I was prepping the boat?
Or is this the next day?
MATT: This is, like, 2:30 in the morning.
After everyone's gone to sleep.
LAURA: I guess--
MATT: Jester?
TRAVIS: You just gave me full body pimples. Seriously.
LAURA: I'm going to be on the bottom-bottom.
MATT: The bottom-bottom?
LAURA: Yeah, in the green fancy bed.
MATT: There you go.
TRAVIS: I was enjoying your shit, then I was like,
nope. No.
MATT: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Cot on the gun deck,
MATT: Right here?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: There's a big double wide, actually.
Maybe I would take that big one.
MATT: Switch to the big one?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: That's definitely the bed
that says "hope springs eternal."
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, let's pick out our beds right now.
MATT: Beauregard.
TRAVIS: Got a fucking sword in my chest.
MARISHA: Beau would also sleep on the floor.
Beau is very comfortable sleeping on the floor.
MATT: Across from Caduceus?
MARISHA: Across from Caduceus.
MATT: All righty.
TRAVIS: Picking beds.
MATT: Caleb.
LIAM: Red bed.
SAM: Red bed redemption?
Red bed!
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: What is it?
MATT: So.
TRAVIS: (laughs) You--!
MATT: Ah, okay.
LIAM: The fuck do we do?
MATT: Just a minute here as I situate this.
All right.
Hmm!
LAURA: We wouldn't even know, though.
MATT: Nope!
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: So, Fjord, what'd you get?
TRAVIS: 15.
MATT: 15, okay.
MARISHA: Oh, we didn't roll initiative.
LAURA: We're not rolling yet.
MARISHA: We're not rolling.
MATT: All righty.
Getting this all situated and ready here for me to look at.
That puts Fjord--
LIAM: Travis in the hot seat.
TRAVIS: I was just enjoying Ashley's ride,
and then I got caught looking.
MATT: It happens, man.
ASHLEY: [inaudible]
When he looks over at you and you're like,
"No, no, no, no, no, no."
TRAVIS: Uh-huh.
TALIESIN: Please, spare me another day. Today's not my day.
ASHLEY: Oh my god, look at the shark.
TALIESIN: I know, I was really enjoying the shark.
MATT: Okay, thank you for getting this situated here.
So, Fjord, you are prone on the bed.
You're not wearing armor because you were sleeping.
TRAVIS: Oh, should my AC be lower?
MATT: Your AC is 10 plus your dexterity modifier right now.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's 10 plus my dex mod.
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: Cool, it's 10.
MATT: All right, cool.
So it's their turn first.
LAURA: You have low fucking dex!
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's why I might be dead right now.
MATT: So this entity pulls the blade from your chest,
an arc of blood across the outer wall and the window
on the side just across the edge.
It's going to go ahead
and
attempt to bite you.
You watch its jaws partially open,
it goes (snarling) and then goes towards you
and attempts to clamp down on your body.
TRAVIS: What?!
MATT: It's a natural 20.
LAURA: Oh no!
No!
TRAVIS: I believe you.
MATT: I'm rolling that sapphire dice.
It came up on a sapphire.
TRAVIS: Get rid of that thing.
MATT: Good news is,
it's not the other attack.
And I roll a six. That's twelve plus five.
17 points of piercing damage as it sinks into your body.
You feel the pain
as it tears upward and you see, there are bite marks
scraped into your abdomen
as it pulls up and (snarls) sucks in
some of the blood that it's taken from the wound.
It's going to strike you twice with its sword.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: It's a natural one.
Fucking lucky.
That's cocked.
And it's a 24 to hit.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that hits.
MATT: So this blade strikes once towards you.
You roll out of the way it slams into the bed.
As you pull back, it arcs upward
and cuts you across the side.
You take--
(thunder rumbling)
13 points of slashing damage
and two points of psychic damage.
TRAVIS: All right.
Shit. And that was in addition to the bite damage as well?
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: Did you give me bite damage?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: You did?
TALIESIN: It wasn't terrible.
TRAVIS: I don't think I put it down. Do you remember?
MATT: It was 17 points.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's different.
TALIESIN: Twelve plus five.
TRAVIS: Okay.
Woof. Woof.
MATT: It's your turn, Fjord.
TRAVIS: That dude dropped me in half, or thing.
That changes a lot. Okay.
Can I summon the s--
MATT: You summon your blade?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: Your sword summons to your side.
LAURA: Is it the real one?
MARISHA: I know, which one is it?
MATT: It's your rune blade.
And looking around, you can see
the blade in this creature's hand
is the Sword of Fathoms,
or at least looks very much like it.
TRAVIS: Okay.
Can I cast--
I got to get the fuck out of here.
Can I--
I can't let him hit me again. I'm fucking smoked.
I'm going to cast Far Step at 5th-level.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Which lets me "teleport 60 feet
to an unoccupied space
"you can see. Each one of your turns before the spell ends,
"you can use a bonus action to teleport in this way again."
And I will (bamfing) out of the
captain's quarters onto the main deck.
MATT: To where you can see.
TRAVIS: Oh shit.
MATT: Right now, you only have a visual outside this window
and outside onto the deck out there.
TRAVIS: Is this a doorway? Is there a door, or just--
MATT: This is a door that goes between, technically,
but it's not on the ship.
LAURA: But as a bonus action, you can then use it.
MATT: On subsequent turns, yes.
LAURA: Oh, on subsequent turns.
TRAVIS: Let's roll with the Wild Mother.
I bamf out of the ship.
MATT: Just out this way?
TRAVIS: Outside.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: How far do you go?
TRAVIS: (splashing) Into the water 60 feet.
Let's make it 40.
I'll just make it 40 so I can stay within range.
MATT: (splashing) You're in the ocean as you appear
and just go into a full dive into the ocean,
come up, breaking the surface.
All right, you can move, if want to.
MARISHA: There's blood.
Swimming in blood. Yeah.
MATT: Yeah, you have very heavy, open wound
now filled with seawater.
It stings a lot.
TRAVIS: And I'll just--
LAURA: Salt is good for it.
TRAVIS: -- weakly shout out:
Man overboard! But it's fucking thundering
and lightning outside.
MATT: It is.
Huh!
Rushing up to the side,
you see Orly glance over and go,
"Captain!"
And he starts looking for a rope and getting ready
and starts shouting orders as other individuals
start rushing up. Marius goes over and starts helping
to get the rope up there.
LAURA: (laughs) Look at his little figure!
SAM: (nasally) Hello! I am Marius!
MATT: Passive perception,
you do see on the outside of the boat, climbing up beyond
the view of them, a handful of other creatures
that are nearing the top.
SAM: What the fuck are those things?
LAURA: Oh fuck, oh fuck, oh fuck.
They're Uk'otoa people!
MATT: They all look humanoid, but they have fish-like fins
on their forearms and across the head.
Some of them look kind of wrong
or, like, one arm is a weird tentacle and is (sucking sound)
climbing up the side
and they're all almost to the top of the deck.
You guys are all still sleeping.
ASHLEY: Do we hear anything?
SAM: Is the ship moving?
MATT: I will say,
oh yeah, the ship is rocking.
SAM: But, like, is Fjord drifting away or--?
MATT: He will be. I mean, it's not a speedboat or anything.
TRAVIS: I can pop back in.
MATT: In six seconds, he can
teleport back in, so I'm not too worried.
All right.
So that's the top of the round.
I'm going to go ahead and roll initiative for them now.
TRAVIS: Holy shit!
LAURA: We need to wake up.
ASHLEY: They need to stomp on the deck. Wake us up.
(thunder rumbling)
TRAVIS: What the fuck is that?
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Who is that?
MATT: So, top of the round.
TRAVIS: My face is stinging.
MATT: This entity
breaks through the window and glances off the side, looking
at you, down at the ocean. You see it curl around
the corner after the glass sprays out the back of it.
LAURA: The poor Ball-Eater!
MATT: It's going to go ahead and cast Eldritch Blast at you.
(gasping)
LAURA: This motherfucker!
SAM: (slow drawl) Eldritch blast.
MATT: That is hilariously--
that's a 10! That's your AC, right?
TRAVIS: It is.
MATT: It hits you.
MARISHA: Oh, jeez.
TRAVIS: It's not like I was going to get dressed.
MATT: That's a nine
and that is a 20, so you get hit twice.
TRAVIS: Wow.
LAURA: Oh no. Oh no!
MATT: So you take--
LAURA: Don't die on the water!
MATT: --17 points of force damage
as the creature comes out and throws these three blasts.
One hits you in the shoulder, the other you dive below
and it misses you, and you stand there for a second feel one
that actually goes through the ocean below
and strikes you in the side of the hip and the leg.
ALL: Ooh.
MATT: Now it's your turn, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Now it's my turn.
I will shout out:
Intruders!
And I will use my bonus action to
60 feet onto the main deck,
past Orly, if I can.
MATT: Up here?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: All right, there you are.
TRAVIS: Um.
Boy.
Boy, boy, boy.
And I can't-- none of them are peeking over the side
of the railing yet, right? They're
just climbing up the side?
MATT: Correct. They're, like, maybe about
five to ten feet from the edge.
TRAVIS: I'll use my action to scream as loud as I can:
Everybody wake the fuck up!
MATT: There is a bell that hangs there for--
TRAVIS: That works! (clanging)
MATT: All right, so you have to use your movement over here,
go ahead and grab the bell and start clanging it.
Everyone in the upper floor here,
you all begin to hear the bell
and so you all start coming to consciousness.
LAURA: (yawning) What's that mean? Is it dinner time?
MATT: Nobody's in the bottom floor, so you guys are good.
So everybody else, you begin to come to consciousness.
So we'll have you roll initiative at the end of this round.
(groaning)
MATT: All righty.
The bell starts happening.
Some of the other crew members start waking up as well.
Gets up,
gets up.
That's-- Marius is up there.
This is a proxy for
Shelda and then
that there is-- I'm representing as Gallan.
SAM: Gallan.
MATT: So...
after Fjord finishes your turn,
these creatures all
reach the top, leap over the edge. Oh god.
TRAVIS: (laughs) Oh god!
MATT: Yep. Leap over the edge there
and leap over the edge here.
(thunder crashes)
MATT: This one here, you can see,
is covered in these large quills
on its back. These, like, weird spines that
all of a sudden, with a flex, protrude even further
and it flexes its chest as one bends
and fires out towards Marius.
SAM: Cool.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Wow.
MATT: Oh yeah, that hits.
TRAVIS: Wow.
MATT: Marius takes
nine points of poison damage,
and has to make a constitution saving throw.
Fails! Marius is poisoned.
SAM: Oh no!
MATT: All right. The one over there is
going to attempt to fire a quill.
Well, it still has to be close to you.
It's going to, after the rest of its movement,
it just barely manages to get up close enough to you, Fjord,
to catch up to you and then does the same thing
and releases a quill from its chest towards you.
It's cocked.
That's, ooh,
that's a critical again, that's a natural twenty.
TRAVIS: Damn!
MATT: Oh, but you're a lucky son of a bitch.
Rolled the two. So that's four points of poison damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: And
I need you to make a
constitution saving throw for me.
TRAVIS: Okay.
18.
MATT: 18, you're fine.
SAM: Yeah!
TRAVIS: What's that do? Uh oh.
MATT: So as things are getting more and more intense,
so does the music.
LAURA: Gulp!
(intense timpani)
TRAVIS: This is fucking dope!
MARISHA: This is fucking dope, I know!
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: (chanting) Ship fight, ship fight, ship fight!
MATT: Crawling through--
LAURA: (gasps)
SAM: Ahh!
LIAM: Ooh!
MATT: -- the gun holes where the cannons are,
you see, Nott, as you're in the hammock
and you hear the bells and look over your edge
you could see the wooden slats that usually close them
are now open as these weird creatures are
slithering through and then landing onto the gun deck.
MARISHA: I just battened down those hatches.
SAM: Whoever battened down these hatches
did a shitty job of it!
MARISHA: Fucking Marius, goddamn it.
SAM: Is that a different one or just a different--?
MATT: That's a different one.
MARISHA: He looks real fancy.
LAURA: Oh, I don't like him at all.
SAM: These are creepy crawlies.
MATT: You're on that side and there's another here.
SAM: Oh boy, guys, I'm surrounded.
MATT: The ones that are standing like this
all have one tentacle arm.
The smaller ones have the quills.
This one here has the grayish blue skin,
has this long, tattered robe.
Similar to the one you had, but was not as well-dressed
and as intense-looking,
but it does have, where its mouth is, it has this weird
open, double-split on each side and like (tongue wagging).
TRAVIS: (groans) Oh, the flexing!
(tongue wagging)
MATT: So they just get in there.
TRAVIS: Terrible.
MATT: The crew's going to take their turn now.
Orly is going to go ahead and
he's going to go ahead and cast--
Let's see. Do these count as humanoid? Yeah, it does.
Orly's going to go ahead and cast Charm Person
on the two that are visible right there at 2nd-level.
Uses a 2nd-level slot.
Saving throw for each of those.
TRAVIS: -- to Charm Person.
MATT: That one fails.
TRAVIS: Nice.
MATT: That one does succeed, the one by you.
But the one that's in front of Orly is now currently
treating you--
Orly, at least-- as an ally.
And has gone from an aggressive stance to a (calm breath).
And is just standing there, looking around,
a bit confused with the current scenario.
With that, Orly's going to go ahead and dart back a bit,
and try and back up to the side of the ship
to take a gauge of what's happening,
while drawing a shortsword from the side.
With that, Marius is going to go ahead and attempt to
make two attacks with a longsword against the guy.
That hits,
indeed!
Second attack.
Misses with a three.
Aw, buddy.
Does
five damage to the guy in front of him.
LAURA: Aw.
MATT: Yeah.
He is-- Oh, and he's poisoned, so he has
disadvantage on the attacks.
Actually, the first one misses.
Second one
does hit still, so it's fine.
So it all worked out well in the end.
That finishes the round.
Everybody else roll initiative now, please.
TRAVIS: Help! Help!
TALIESIN: For fuck's sake.
MATT: All right, so 25 to 20?
MARISHA: Hang on.
TALIESIN: Gross.
MARISHA: What's my initiative?
25 to 20? I'm going to roll a d8 for this one,
use my boots.
Not that great.
No, okay.
MATT: Nobody?
MARISHA: No.
MATT: Okay, 25 to 20.
20 to 15.
LAURA: 19.
MARISHA: 18.
MATT: 19?
All right.
(solemn music)
SAM: What to do.
MATT: Beau, you said 18?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
Anybody else?
15 to 10.
LIAM: 10.
ASHLEY: 13.
TRAVIS: This is your first fight as a halfling, right?
SAM: Yeah.
I don't have a lot of--
I don't have any area of effect attacks.
LAURA: What'd roll, Fjord? What was your initiative?
MATT: 15 to 10.
LIAM: 10.
MATT: 10 for Caleb.
(intense electric guitar music)
SAM: (drum rhythm)
LAURA: Ooh!
MARISHA: You were 15?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: All right. 10 to five?
TALIESIN: Eight.
SAM: Eight.
LAURA: Ooh.
TALIESIN: Eyy.
MATT: Cad and Veth.
You got it. All right, Jester, you are up first.
LAURA: (startled groan)
MATT: You hear the bell going off.
You hear some movement upstairs.
The ship's rocking and you're just, "What is going on?!"
LAURA: I sit up.
MATT: Uses half your movement getting up out of bed.
LAURA: I see this weird thing in front of me and--
MATT: Well, this is-- sorry. To let you know,
these are rooms. So you guys are in rooms here.
LAURA: Oh, I thought we were all
just, like, out in the open.
MATT: No, sorry. You guys all are in
different rooms here, separately,
and this are little doors. The little white elements
there are the walls.
So right now, you don't know what's going on,
all you hear is the bell ringing.
LAURA: Okay, so I'll get up and I walk out the door.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: What's going on here? (screams)
MATT: Down the hall way and immediately, you see
the edge of something weird here and then a lot of these
from eye line, you can really only see these two, maybe.
Actually, you'd probably get about there before you'd see.
One, two.
One, two,
three. You can get about there, I'd say.
Now you can see Nott there in the middle the room,
looking over and reacting to all these creatures
that have filtered in from the gun deck openings.
What are you doing?
LAURA: Oh god.
Oh god, okay. Well, the thing I was going to do is
a little bit, is a little bit much.
I'm going to do it.
MATT: What you doing?
LAURA: I'm going to do (uncertain noise) a
Blade Barrier.
SAM: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
LAURA: And I'm going to cast it.
It's a 100-foot straight wall,
but I'm guessing I get to choose,
like, where I want it to be. Right?
MATT: Yeah. "A vertical wall of whirling, sharp blades."
LAURA: 20 feet high.
SAM: Whoa.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MATT: "Make a straight wall up to 100 feet long,
"20 feet high, and five feet thick
"or a ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter."
SAM: Ringed wall.
LAURA: Well, but I would ring you
and then you wouldn't be able to get out.
SAM: Oh, I'll be fine.
MATT: All right, so what're you doing?
LAURA: I'm going to--
Are these the only ways to get upstairs?
MATT: Correct, yeah.
LAURA: Okay.
I'm going to cast a barrier from starting at this guy,
I'm just going to bring it out like that and end it
across here to where we still have access
on the side. Those ones would be not in it.
MATT: Okay, so we will say--
SAM: Like, is he in the middle of the wall?
The guy in front of you?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: I'm just marking this,
a wall is about here is where it goes.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
So as you summon it,
LAURA: That's a bad placement for it. I already did it.
MATT: This five-foot wall
thick of blades whirling and spinning
starts thrashing through,
rending all the creatures in this space,
as well as all the cannons.
LAURA: (gasps)
I didn't know it was-- I thought it was just creatures!
SAM: Oh well.
LAURA: Anything--
when a creature enters the wall.
It didn't say any thing about cannons!
MATT: Well, Fireball doesn't say anything about, you know,
blowing up trees, necessarily,
but if you threw Fireball on a tree--
LAURA: (unhappy noise)
MATT: It's fine. The cannons are made of metal,
they're going to be fine.
The wheels are going to be probably destroyed.
They're going to be a little harder to move and aim.
SAM: My cannons!
ASHLEY: It's fixable.
MATT: That's okay, though.
TRAVIS: (like Nott) My cannons!
MATT: But the wall is up. That's your action.
LAURA: Did I get-- I got that guy in it, too. Right?
MATT: Correct, yeah.
They're all in that space there.
TRAVIS: What a great marker for that, too.
ASHLEY: Yeah, that's cool.
LAURA: What a fucking dumbass spell I just did. Whatever.
ASHLEY: No, you didn't. It was very cool.
TRAVIS: You're learning, you're learning.
SAM: You did great!
MATT: All right, is that your turn?
LAURA: (strange uncertain sounds)
I'm going to-- I don't have any more movement?
Is that all my movement?
MATT: That's all your movement.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: All right. Beauregard, you're up.
MARISHA: Captain! I wake up and--
MATT: Half your movement to get up.
MARISHA: I come out.
MATT: Come out in the hallway.
Or you can get just in front of Jester, if you want to.
You just see this large wall of blades
and creatures starting to swarm.
MARISHA: And I just crash into Jester
and I'm like: What's happening?
LAURA: I don't know! I'm attacking things!
MARISHA: What?! I'm going to run upstairs!
TRAVIS: (laughing) I'm attacking things.
MARISHA: Step of the Wind! I'm going
to try and squeeze past Jester
and bolt upstairs with another 50 feet of movement.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Oh, that's where the stairs are?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: 40-- you said 50 feet?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: That'll get you just out
to here, I'll say.
MARISHA: Captain--
MATT: You do suffer
two, three attacks of opportunity as you rush through.
MARISHA: That's okay.
MATT: Step of the Wind...?
MARISHA: Step of the Wind, no, I think that-- well, wait...
MATT: Just making sure there's
nothing weird there about that.
MARISHA: You're right.
MATT: Monks are weird.
MARISHA: I can either disengage or--
MATT: Okay, disengage or the dash. Okay, so you dashed.
All right, so that in mind,
you go ahead and suffer from...
MARISHA: Hit me.
TALIESIN: ♪ With your best shot. ♪
MATT: It's going to strike at you
with-- it has a blade in one hand.
That is a 22 to hit.
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: All right.
You suffer six points of slashing damage.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Plus four points of necrotic
from this rusty-looking blade.
The two others there, they're going to strike at you,
one with a tentacle and
one with unarmed strike.
Unarmed strike-- oof, no, that misses.
The one with the tentacle, that's
going to be a 16, which misses.
So you just dart by and head up there.
So that's your movement and your bonus action.
MARISHA: Yes.
Am I able--?
Can I, like, survey the scene?
I used my movement and my bonus action.
MATT: I'd say you can see up here because you just got
out here and that's above you and it's blocking your vision,
so you don't see where Fjord is.
You don't see the creature with it.
Up here, you can see this creature.
You can see Marius curtained in with this.
You can see Orly, who's just backing away
and glances over to notice you, with his one eye.
MARISHA: I'll use the rest of my movement again
to get in-between Orly and come and help fucking Marius.
MATT: You got it. So you dart up and join in with that
creature right there and hold it in place. You got it.
All right, finishing Beau's turn, it is now this guy's turn.
Climbs up the side of the ship.
Before landing on top and just (thuds).
(grunts) Comes over onto the rain slick surface
at the top of the upper deck there
and is going to go ahead and
use its action to cast Armor of Agathys.
TRAVIS: Wow.
MATT: You now watch as--
MARISHA: What if it's, like, nega-Fjord?
TRAVIS: That would be crazy.
MATT: You watch as the rain water that spattering across it
suddenly (cracking) and all the rain water starts gathering
as chunks of ice until eventually it creates these spines,
these jagged quills of frozen water
and with every raindrop that hits, it only adds
more and more to it.
TRAVIS: That's a dope visual, but okay.
(laughter)
MATT: And it's going to use the rest of
the movement to just move right there.
TRAVIS: Jester, Beau.
Who is-- was there somebody before Jester?
SAM: Not me.
MATT: Now it's Fjord's turn, and then
it's Yasha. You're on deck.
TRAVIS: I will take one step away from-- no, he's in melee
with me, isn't he?
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: I will use my bonus action to try something crazy.
I'm going to try and Far Step--
MATT: Oh, just as a note, too, before I forget.
Make a constitution saving throw.
TRAVIS: Oh right, because the spine?
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13 is fine.
It was a DC of 10. Didn't do a lot of damage to you.
TRAVIS: I'm going to try and use my bonus action to use
Far Step to go 60 feet up onto this mast onto this buckle
and hold onto the main mast.
MATT: You got it.
TALIESIN: Not even going for the crow's nest.
TRAVIS: I don't think I can get there in 60 feet.
This is more than 60 feet from there, right?
MATT: I'd say it's upwards, like, 70 feet or higher.
TRAVIS: I'll just go halfway.
LAURA: Ooh, cool.
MATT: About there, we'll say.
MARISHA: Whee!
TRAVIS: And if I'm holding on with one arm,
I will send three Eldritch Blasts down at that guy.
MATT: The one that was just next to you?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LAURA: That's a cool spell.
LIAM: How high is it in here, DM?
MATT: In there in the deck? I'd say it's about, maybe--
TRAVIS: 19 to hit.
MATT: --maybe seven feet?
LIAM: Seven. Okay.
MATT: Yeah, it's not--
LIAM: It's tight.
MARISHA: Historically, they were, like, five feet.
MATT: This is a fantasy world.
(laughter)
LAURA: I have a question.
TRAVIS: 19 hit this guy?
MATT: I'm not being a dick about your blade.
LAURA: No, no, no, I have an actual question about it, then.
SAM: Historically, there were no fish people.
MATT: It's true. What was that?
TRAVIS: 19.
MATT: 19 hits.
TRAVIS: That's 11 points of force damage to the first one.
That's 15 to hit.
MATT: 15 does it.
TRAVIS: Oh, 15 hits? Okay, that's good.
That's 14 points of force damage.
MATT: Nice.
TRAVIS: And the third one is a natural 20.
SAM: Ooh!
MATT: All righty.
TRAVIS: That is 14 doubled, which
is 28 and an extra damage die.
MATT: Well, you double the dice, not the bonus.
TRAVIS: Oh.
MATT: So...
TRAVIS: But don't I have savage something?
MATT: Savage Attacker means you
can reroll it once if you want to.
TRAVIS: I thought I had something when I crit. It is...
when you score a critical hit, you roll one of the dice
an additional time and add it to the extra damage.
MATT: Oh sorry, that's--
TRAVIS: Savage attacks.
MATT: Correct. So what'd you roll for the first die?
TRAVIS: 28 was--
so 14 doubled.
MATT: 14 is what you rolled originally?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Okay, without adding the bonus>
TRAVIS: Right.
MATT: Gotcha. Okay, I misunderstood.
TRAVIS: So, do I double the 14 and then add the 13?
Or no, just double it.
MATT: You double it and then
you add the additional die roll.
TRAVIS: Oh, great, so 28 plus 13
so 41.
MATT: Well, Savage Attacker-- okay,
what are you adding the 13 from?
TRAVIS: Well, I rolled another-- oh,
that's a d20. That's the wrong one.
MATT: Correct.
So it would be 28 plus four.
MATT: Okay!
TRAVIS: Thank you.
I'm rolling the wrong damn dice.
MATT: No worries. That's enough. One round of just blasts.
You end up just icing this creature.
And you see it now-- (death rattle). It's body leaking
this clear sea foam-like blood from the wounds
that are left behind.
TRAVIS: That's my turn.
MATT: All right, Fjord's turn's over. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, so
I'm going to wake up and walk out of this little area.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: (like Yasha) Hello.
LAURA: (like Yasha) Ooh, there's lots of blades here.
MATT: 25, 30, 35.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: You can see there's now creatures
surrounding you and Nott's right-- or--
ASHLEY: So these two are in a wall of fire?
LAURA: Blades.
MATT: Wall of Blades.
LAURA: It would be very loud because of the cannons.
MATT: There are sparks everywhere from it hitting the metal.
SAM: Oh god, sparks! Oh god!
MATT: Yeah,
lot of gunpowder in this room.
SAM: Oh god.
TALIESIN: Oh wow.
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to walk over to this guy
right over there to the right.
See that he's not supposed to be there.
Hey, Veth!
SAM: Hi, good morning!
ASHLEY: Take a swing.
MATT: Go for it.
Okay.
Do you want to rage before you do it?
ASHLEY: Oh yes! Of course. Absolutely, I'm raging.
23 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
ASHLEY: Okay,
so
that's-- I'm going to do that again.
Okay, so seven... That's a little better.
Eight...
SAM: And, Caleb just do Fireball in the middle of the--
LIAM: That'll take care of all of them.
ASHLEY: 18 for the first hit.
MATT: 18 points of damage. You got it.
ASHLEY: Attack again.
Yeah. 26.
MATT: 26 hits.
SAM: How're you doing up there?
Are you dying? Are you okay?
TALIESIN: He's having a bad day.
TRAVIS: I'm okay. I'm leaking, but I'm okay.
SAM: Are you near the-- where are you?
ASHLEY: 20 points of damage total.
MATT: 20 points of damage total. All righty. Nice.
The second hit?
That wasn't the second hit. 20 points? Or is it 20 total?
ASHLEY: 20, that was the second hit.
MATT: Nice.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, all right. So as you rush up and hack once
and a second time into this creature, it looks pretty hurt.
You carve into its body
and you see how there's the opening inside
and where its organs are, they're almost translucent.
Like whatever coloration it would be if you're used
to seeing the internal organs.
Everything in there is weirdly see foam
and see through, like clear. It's awful,
but it's still standing.
ASHLEY: Okay.
And then, as a--
who all is within 60 feet?
I mean, does that count upwards as well?
MATT: Yep.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: If they can see you.
ASHLEY: Oh, if they can see me.
TALIESIN: Only two...
ASHLEY: I'm going to wait on that.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: That finishes your turn.
All right. Now, it is the sea spawns' turn.
The three of--
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Sea spawn?
MATT: These two there.
So the blade wall.
What is the damage on that one?
LAURA: It is 6d10.
MATT: Roll that damage.
LAURA: I did, so I wouldn't have to do it. I rolled 32.
MATT: 32, all right.
That's a failed dex save on one
and natural one on the other.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: So was that--?
LAURA: 32 points.
MATT: 36 points.
SAM: 32.
LAURA: 32 points.
MATT: 32, sorry.
Oof.
That's...
They're hurting.
Immediately as their turn starts,
they're like (slicing noises).
"(screeching)"
TRAVIS: (impacts)
MATT: Yep, this one's going to
rush out here to get in with Nott.
This one's going to go ahead and rush over here.
Actually, no, it's going to stay here against Nott.
This one's going to stay with Yasha there.
All right, so the two against Nott are going to strike.
They have-- oof,
three attacks. All right.
So two unarmed strikes and one with a tentacle.
So since you are prone, they have advantage.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: Even though you're being flanked there.
So the first one is going to be a
20 to hit.
SAM: Hits!
MATT: Second one is going to be a 15?
SAM: Hit! No, miss.
MATT: All righty. The last one is going to be 22.
SAM: Hit!
MATT: All right, so you take
seven points of bludgeoning damage.
SAM: Uh-huh.
MATT: And then from the tentacle
you take
nine points of bludgeoning damage and you are grappled.
SAM and LAURA: Ooh.
MATT: As the tentacle wraps around you
and holds you in place.
The other one now is going to take its turn.
And that's going to be at 25 to hit.
SAM: Hit!
MATT: 14 to hit.
SAM: Miss!
MATT: And-- ooh.
26 to hit.
SAM: Hit!
MATT: So as this one bludgeons you with its unarmed strike,
you take four points of bludgeoning damage.
Its other tentacle hits you for
15 points of bludgeoning damage.
SAM: I will reduce that one.
MATT: Okay, so you take seven instead.
SAM: Uncanny Dodge.
MATT: You got it.
TALIESIN: Roly poly.
SAM: But I'm grapped.
MATT: This one here that is charmed by Orly
is just going to go ahead and,
like, walk over into the space in the middle here
and just, like, look around, waiting.
It's not aggressive.
The one that's next to Marius is going to go ahead
and turn towards you, Beauregard, since you just rushed up
and it's going to turn and it's going to attempt to
fire another poison quill at you.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: As well as two unarmed strikes
because it can do that altogether now that's on top.
So the unarmed strikes are going to be--
oof, a 12.
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: And a 22.
MARISHA: Hit.
MATT: All righty. So you do take
four points of bludgeoning damage.
MARISHA: 'kay.
MATT: Poison quill strike.
Oh shit, that's going to be 22 to hit.
MARISHA: Hit.
MATT: You take
six points of poison damage, but you're--
MATT and MARISHA: -- immune to poison.
MATT: And you don't have to make a saving throw
because you're immune to poison.
TRAVIS: Oh, wow.
MATT: But it doesn't know that.
MARISHA: I just fake it a little.
(exaggerated fake pained noises)
I'm nauseous!
MATT: And one that's coming for you, Yasha,
gets its three attacks on you.
That's going to be a
21 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: 15 to hit.
ASHLEY: No.
LIAM: This asshole right here?
MATT: And
17 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yes, just hits.
MATT: Okay, gotcha.
TRAVIS: Yeah, who's that guy?
MATT: So the first hit deals--
oh my god!
Four points of bludgeoning damage.
ASHLEY: Is that halved?
MATT: Yes, to two.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: And then its tentacle strike is going to be
13 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to six,
and you are grappled.
TRAVIS: What do Yasha's wings look like?
ASHLEY: I don't think they're--
MATT: They're not out yet; that was just in the dream.
SAM: I was imagining, like--
ASHLEY: I didn't know that was a possibility.
SAM: -- toucan colors.
ASHLEY: Whatever.
MATT: But it's an action to use that.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: Macaw wings.
MATT: All right.
So finishing their element now.
It is now Caleb's go,
with another creature on deck. So yeah, go.
LIAM: Okay, so.
Storm awake, grab my satchel, and just bust out the door
because I hear all the noise.
I can see Jester and this fish man near her?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: If I'm in the hallway.
MATT: Step out into the hallway,
I would say you can just barely see him.
LIAM: Yeah, okay, so Caleb jams his hand into his pack,
pulls out a cocoon, starts waving in the air,
and casts Polymorph at that guy.
MATT: At him?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: 17 wisdom.
LAURA: He's in the middle of a
Blade Barrier, too, just so you know.
LIAM: Okay. Would I see that?
MATT: No, you do not.
LAURA: You wouldn't?
MATT: He wouldn't,
not from where he's standing.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: What's a blade barrier?
I don't even know what that is.
MATT: It's a wisdom save?
TRAVIS: Wall of swords.
LIAM: I don't see swords spinning around?
MATT: It rolled a 19.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: So 16 plus three.
LIAM: But I wouldn't see swords flying around in air?
MATT: From this angle, because there's
a wall and a corner there,
you're probably hearing everything,
but it's just beyond your view.
TALIESIN: Sounds like a giant battle.
MATT: There's a whole wall right here and the corner.
LIAM: Oh. Well, I assumed I saw him because
you have to see him to cast the spell.
MATT: You can see him,
but he's just on the outside
of the blade wall.
LIAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: Oh nice, I can see that.
MATT: So you can see him just past that corner, but barely.
So he resists the spell.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Are you going to stay put?
LIAM: I thought I used all my movement.
MATT: You used 15 to get up and then five to move out there.
LIAM: So I'll move 10 feet forward.
MATT: Okay. Into the hall a little closer. Got it.
All right, now it is this guy's turn
and this guy's turn.
SAM: (groaning)
LAURA: Okay, so
here's my question. This is why I was wandering.
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Because it's
20 feet high.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Does that mean that it would be,
if the ceilings are only seven feet high,
would it be sticking out another 13 feet up above,
or 12 feet above the upper deck?
MATT: If you want to, you can keep it segmented,
or you can let it go through,
in which case, it will destroy the deck above it
and carve through.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Because the blades will have to
cut through the floor to continue.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: But if you want to, just keep it to that deck,
I'll let you do that
because you are in control of the spell.
LAURA: Okay.
I'll do that.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Gotcha.
SAM: She'll destroy the ship.
LAURA: I'm going to destroy the ship.
TALIESIN: Burn it all!
MATT: First, that guy. Go ahead and roll damage for him.
He's going to see if he can make
his dexterity save to escape.
No! He rolls terrible.
LIAM: That's what I get for urinating.
LAURA: 14, 24.
29.
MATT: 29, oof!
29 points of damage to him. All righty.
He's going to step out of the blade element there
in the middle and as he steps right in front of you,
Jester, the little gibbering open jaw
(tongue fluttering)
inhales and it--
LAURA: I don't like it.
MATT: (screeches)
This screech, this piercing cry
just echoes throughout,
through the upper deck.
Everyone within 300 feet that can hear him,
which is everyone,
I need to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
ASHLEY: Oh boy.
SAM: Oh boysie.
MARISHA: Oh, not too cool.
TALIESIN: Yay!
ASHLEY: Ooh.
MATT: Fjord?
MARISHA: Not cool.
TRAVIS: I have [inaudible]. That's good. 19.
MATT: 19, you're okay.
MARISHA: Five.
MATT: Beauregard, you are stunned.
MARISHA: Stunned?!
MATT: Yep. Caleb.
LIAM: 16.
MATT: Caleb, you're fine.
SAM: 20.
MATT: You're fine, Veth.
LAURA: 19.
MATT: You're fine. Wow, good roll!
TALIESIN: 25.
MATT: Fuck, guys!
ASHLEY: Natural one.
MATT: Yasha is stunned.
LIAM: Two heavy hitters.
Two brawlers are stunned.
MATT: For the rest of the crew.
MARISHA: I rolled a two.
MATT: Stunned. Marius.
LIAM: Bloodbath.
MATT: Stunned and poisoned.
LAURA: Oh, Marius.
MATT: Rest of the crew there.
Stunned.
And--
TRAVIS: Oh no!
MATT: Stunned.
SAM: Well.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Cool, cool, cool.
MATT: That's his turn.
The other one that just came up on deck up there,
it's going to go ahead and move into
Orly.
LAURA: There's two of them?!
I should have just sent it through the roof.
TALIESIN: We'd be sinking.
MATT: You had the option. It's okay.
It's going to go ahead and make all of its attacks on Orly.
Orly is currently--
He is stunned, so it has advantage on the attacks.
So the first one is going to be--
Oh, it's really shitty.
That's a miss.
LAURA: In his defense, it's really dark outside,
MATT: Okay, it hits with claw
and then hits with
sword. Okay.
Orly takes--
LIAM: Matt, this is a very cool encounter.
LAURA: Yes, it is. It's very terrifying.
It's a lot more than I expected it to be.
MATT: 12 points of damage.
And six points of damage.
So Orly's just, like-- Orly's going
(groaning) holding his head.
At which point, this creature emerges
over the top of the deck, pulls a blade out
that also looks very familiar,
covered in barnacles and having a somewhat
falchion-like shape to it.
SAM: Wait, two people have that blade?
MATT: And goes and claws and then bites into--
MARISHA: Members Only jackets?
LAURA: How many people did Uk'otoa--
SAM and TALIESIN: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
MATT: And that's their turn.
That brings us to Caduceus and Veth
TALIESIN: I'll go first.
SAM: Feel free.
MATT: If you want to.
Veth has the higher dexterity,
but you can choose to relinquish
to Caduceus, if you'd like.
SAM: It won't matter much.
I can go first, and just so I can get out
of the way of whatever you're doing.
TALIESIN: Nothing super exciting, but we'll see.
SAM: Me neither.
I will reach out to the one who is grappling me and be like:
Get off me, sir.
And I will--
I will cast Shocking Grasp.
MATT: Shocking Grasp on which one?
SAM: On that one there, yeah.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
SAM: 20 to hit.
MATT: 20 to hit. That definitely hits.
SAM: 3d8. What's a d8 look like? This one.
Ooh.
Seven.
14 points o' damage.
MATT: Yeah, that does it.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Between the blade damage that it had
taken, it was already shredded all over
and then as it came forward
and wrapped you in the tentacle,
you reached out and grabbed, and
as that pulse of electrical energy
tore through its body, you watch it (groaning),
and suddenly its eyes smoke and it (groaning)
and then falls to the ground destroyed.
SAM: So I'm no longer grappled?
MATT: They were both grappling you.
SAM: They both grappled me?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Goddamn it!
MATT: They both wrapped you in tentacles.
LIAM: (laughs)
SAM: But then I can't do anything else,
right? Because I can't move.
MATT: You can't move. You got your bonus action.
SAM: A bonus action.
I don't really have any bonus actions.
So I will bonus action cast Mage Hand.
MATT: All right, there you go.
SAM: Great.
MATT: There's a Mage Hand.
Where do you want it to be?
SAM: Just, like, right in front of the guy's face.
MATT: All right.
♪ Waving in his face, ♪
waving in his face. ♪
TALIESIN: "Hi."
MATT: Caduceus, you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to get up, leave the room.
Oh, wow, okay.
Excuse me. I'm going to just gently push--
push by Caleb, getting in front of Caleb as far as I can go.
MATT: That's about as far as you can get there.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Oh, I'm sorry.
15-- five, 10. Yeah, that is.
That's as far as you can get right there.
TALIESIN: Give you a little cover.
And...
Suppose I'm just going to-- Get off our ship!
Spirit Guardians.
At 4th-level.
TRAVIS: Nice.
LAURA: Nice.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Whoa, look at that!
TALIESIN: That's 15 feet in every direction.
SAM: I want to see Matt put that on his head
and wear it like a crown.
LAURA: Ooh, it would be a really pretty crown.
MATT: You got it.
SAM: "You got it"? You'll put it on your head?
MATT: No.
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah!
SAM: Yay!
TRAVIS: Oh, Melora approves!
Melora approves!
ASHLEY: Melora!
MATT: New fun toys.
TALIESIN: So, yeah. Anybody within it is half speed.
MATT: Right, half speed, and at the top of their turn--
TALIESIN: On top on their turn,
or if they try and enter it,
they take damage.
MATT: You got it.
Both of you are concentrating on spells.
TALIESIN: Makes a wisdom saving throw.
MATT: You got it. All right, so
that's your action and your movement.
Anything else, you good?
TALIESIN: Just double checking.
And I don't have any bonus actions.
No, not yet, I'm good.
MATT: Mmkay.
MATT: All right, the crew goes.
Stunned, stunned, stunned.
Stunned until the end of the creatures' next turn.
So they're all just stunned.
Top of the round.
Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: There's just multicolored beetles everywhere.
LAURA: Right, it's beautiful.
TALIESIN: Yeah, there's some new fancy ones.
LAURA: For my bonus action, I'm
going to cast Spiritual Weapon.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: At 4th-level.
MATT: At 4th-level.
LAURA: Right behind the squiddy guy, yeah.
MATT: Right there?
LAURA: Okay.
LAURA: So that's a 19 to hit.
MATT: 19...
does hit.
LAURA: Oh good. Okay.
(blows raspberry)
11 points
of the damage.
MATT: You got it.
SAM: "Of the damage"?
MATT: So as it appears and then (thudding)
hits it from behind. (snarling)
LAURA: At the same time, I'm going to--
I'm just assuming-- does he look undead at all
or does he look just, like--
MATT: Looks very, like, deep sea alien--
It doesn't look undead, it looks
like something you've never seen before
with a sea-esque motif.
LAURA: Then at the same time, I'm going to
reach my hand forward and cast Toll the Dead.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: Ring that fucking bell.
LAURA: Giant bell over top of his head.
MATT: (ringing) Was that a dex save? Constitution?
LAURA: That is a...
wisdom save.
MATT: Wisdom save.
Natural 20.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Still take half, or nothing?
MATT: No, not for the cantrip.
LAURA: No, I don't think I can do anything.
MATT: Okay, so that finish your turn, Jester?
LAURA: Apparently.
MATT: All right. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Stunned?
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: I can't run by him, no?
MATT: No, not past him, there's not enough room.
LAURA: Okay, yeah.
MATT: You're right there.
All right, so, you're stunned.
This guy over here.
TALIESIN: Fuck pants.
MATT: Is going to step over here.
TALIESIN: Don't like any of this.
SAM: Who are these fuckers?
So what are the--
Where are the ones with the falchions?
TRAVIS: One,
two.
I don't know if that dude down the bottom
with the spider legs has one or not.
SAM: And which one was the one who first attacked you?
The guy up there.
TRAVIS: This motherfucker right here.
He's got Armor of Agathys up.
SAM: How many fucking people
have falchions in this world?
TRAVIS: I don't know, I thought
it was a pretty unique sword.
SAM: There was a sale on falchions.
MATT: He's going to step off to the side here
and do three Eldritch Blasts against you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Not even weighted that well-- okay.
LAURA: Shit. I should've--
MATT: That is a...
16.
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: Natural 20.
TRAVIS: That's three natural 20s.
SAM: Don't worry, Caduceus can cancel it.
MATT: And an 11.
TALIESIN: No, I can't.
SAM: Goddamn you, man.
TALIESIN: I'm not up there.
MATT: All right. All three hit.
You take four points of force damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: 16 points of force damage from the crit.
And nine points of force damage from all three.
TALIESIN: 29 points of damage?
TRAVIS: Wow, you do that really fast.
Wow.
Wow, wow.
Okay, cool.
SAM: Burial at sea.
LAURA: Fjord, if you go down
while you're hanging from something
you'll take a damage--
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
MATT: And then is going to
use the rest of the movement to--
MARISHA: Go back.
Piece of shit.
MATT: There.
MARISHA: Ugh.
MATT: It's going to hold back in that space.
TRAVIS: Do you have a distance ruler back there,
like, a little plastic flimsy thing?
MATT: That's it right there, actually. Using it for that.
SAM: Where are you, Marish?
MATT: I can trade it out for
something, if you wanted to use it.
MARISHA: I'm stunned by Marius.
SAM: Shit, you're stunned?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: A stunned monk is like, nothing.
MATT: Fjord, you're up. Yasha, you're on deck.
TRAVIS: Okay.
I'm going to try something.
So the di-- the distance-- I'm trying to...
Yeah. I'm going to
shimmy--
MATT: I need you to make three
constitution saving throws, by the way.
SAM: Oof.
LIAM: Holy shit.
TRAVIS: Oh, to maintain Far Step?
MATT: To maintain Far Step, yes.
TRAVIS: Okay, I have War Caster.
MATT: Correct, so the first one?
TRAVIS: Is a-- What is it, a con?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: Saving throw?
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: You're fine.
Second one.
This one's going to be higher.
TRAVIS: Is a 23.
MATT: You're fine. Third one.
TRAVIS: 20.
MATT: You're fine.
All right, Far Step maintains.
TALIESIN: War Caster for the win!
MARISHA: War Caster's the best.
TRAVIS: I would like to shimmy around this side of the mast
and I'm going to release and fall about five to 10 feet
and I am going to cast
Hexblade's Curse at the gentleman
that's wielding the falchion below me.
Just about five feet after I fall.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: That's awesome.
TRAVIS: And then I'm going to use--
MATT: In the air, just (whooshing) curse it.
TRAVIS: Then I'm going to
Far Step back up to the crow's nest.
MATT: All right. (whooshing) Up on top.
That's rad.
MARISHA: That was so cool!
MATT: You fall, and as you concentrate outward,
your sword behind you like that, from the ground beneath,
you watch as, from the wood, green vines suddenly emerge
from the long dead wood and wrap around the legs
and then begin to dig up into its various limbs
and hold it in place as the Hexblade's Curse,
now through the Wild Mother's
vision, takes hold.
And as you're about to land, you (whooshing)
and then appear up top and catch yourself
just, you know, shirtless, bloody,
holding the blade in one hand on the top
the rain just bearing down on you.
(breaths heavily)
MARISHA: Ooh! Ooh!
TRAVIS: How much movement would you say I have left?
MARISHA: He's all glisten-y in the moonlight.
MATT: You--
you moved around the mast before falling.
I'd say, and to go with the climbing,
I'd say you have 15 more feet.
TRAVIS: Okay, great. I'm going to lean over the railing
and I'm going to send two Eldritch Blasts
down at the one that I just cursed.
MATT: You got it.
LIAM: That was awesome, Travis.
MARISHA: Yeah, that was so cool!
LIAM: That's why we love this game.
TRAVIS: 16 on the first one.
MATT: 16.
TRAVIS: Does that miss?
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: It does hit.
Okay, great. I'm going to--
LAURA: Are you sure it's not for the
collision of sparks and beetles happening below deck?
TRAVIS: Eight points of force damage.
MATT: Eight points of force damage.
TRAVIS: And the second one is a 23.
Plus four. Damn it.
Only eight points of force damage again.
The third one, I'm going to send at this motherfucker
and say: I know that spell.
And that is a 20 to hit.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: And
that 15 points of force damage.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: Add an
additional eight points, two fours, to this guy
because of the Hexblade's Curse,
there's a plus four to damage.
MATT: An additional eight, you said?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: So I'll send the two and the one
and then I'm going to use the rest of my movement to just
lay down on the crow's nest.
(panting) Just fully prone.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: Okay.
TALIESIN: I have technically made a
pillow fort up there, just saying.
It's got a little more cover.
MATT: Fair enough.
TRAVIS: It's very comfortable.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Well, you're stunned.
Sorry, I just realized.
ASHLEY: Okay! Yeah.
MATT: Sorry.
ASHLEY: It's okay.
MATT: Okay.
So that's your turn.
Now the stuns-- no, the stuns don't wear off yet.
It is now the sea spawns' turn.
MARISHA: Snea Snawn.
ASHLEY and SAM: Snea Snawn.
MATT: The one that's up against you, Yasha, because you are
stunned, it has advantage on its strikes against you.
So for that one it's going to be
19 to hit.
ASHLEY: That hits.
LAURA: Is she still raging in her stunned-ness?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: Okay, good.
MATT: And
double ones.
ALL: Yeah!
MATT: That's a rare sight.
I feel like he pisses himself just because of that point.
TRAVIS: That's the balance with the natural 20s.
MATT: Yeah.
All right, so you take
10 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to five.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: And from the
tentacle, it's now squeezing you within its grasp.
Ooh, that is
12 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to six.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Beast.
MATT: This one here that's still grappling Nott
is just going to go ahead and attack you twice.
You are still prone because you haven't
had any movement to get up, so it has advantage
on its attacks against you.
That is a 23.
SAM: Hit.
MATT: 25.
MATT: And a natural 20.
TALIESIN: Cancel!
LAURA: Ah!
TRAVIS: Grave cleric.
SAM: Oh.
MATT: Do you have to see the person who's attacking
or you have to see the person who's being hit?
TALIESIN: That's a good question. Let me find out.
MATT: Because you cannot see Nott right now.
TALIESIN: Let me see. (pondering noises)
LIAM: There is no Nott, only Veth.
MATT: Veth. Getting used to it. My bad.
TALIESIN: "The creature." Fuck. So no.
"The creature who suffers the hit."
MATT: Yeah, so you cannot see Veth.
LAURA: No!
MATT: All right.
SAM: I will Uncanny Dodge that last one.
Oh wait, can I? I'm grappled; I can't Uncanny Dodge.
MATT: Well, no, it's a reaction,
you still have your reaction.
But if you-- you haven't Uncanny Dodged since last time.
So yeah. So you can.
TALIESIN: I have no reaction, either.
MATT: No worries.
LIAM: You used your reaction?
TALIESIN: No, I didn't.
LIAM: Did not.
TALIESIN: There's nothing to fire at.
MATT: You, Veth, take
nine points of bludgeoning damage from an unarmed strike.
SAM: Boop.
MATT: Eight points of bludgeoning damage
from another unarmed strike.
SAM: Boop.
MATT: And the tentacle.
Oh,
25 points of bludgeoning damage.
SAM: Uncanny Dodge.
MATT: Reduced to half, so that brings you to 12.
TRAVIS: Where you at?
SAM: I'm fine.
TRAVIS: Yep, me too.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: ♪ On a cloudy day. ♪
LAURA: Oh my god.
MATT: This one here is-- takes how much damage?
LAURA: Oh, did he just come up in?
MATT: He would have--
LAURA: I should roll.
TRAVIS: ♪ Come up, come up, come up here ♪
MATT: Actually, he would have left it last round.
I forgot to pull him out of there.
But I'll let it happen, we'll say he just--
That's fine; that's my fault.
TALIESIN: Confused. A lot's happening there.
LAURA: 14.
22, 23, 26,
28.
Gets lower every time. 28 points.
MATT: 28. Let's see if he makes his save.
Yep, that's an 18, so it takes half that, so it's a nine.
So it's still up.
LAURA: 29 points is-- no, 28.
MATT: It takes nine-- sorry. You said 28.
LAURA: Divided by two.
MATT: Right, sorry, so that's--
TALIESIN and TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: 14, not bad. Still up, though.
Barely.
It's going to go ahead and pull out of the blades.
There's no way for it to get over there.
TALIESIN: I mean, it can certainly try.
MATT: Move past Nott there
and it's actually going to go-- it's looking that you're
wrapped up and being crushed.
You're the one who's currently stunned, Yasha,
so it's going to go after you.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: So it's going to go ahead and make two unarmed strikes
and then one with its poison quills.
Since you are stunned, it has advantage.
That is a
17 to hit.
ASHLEY: Just hits.
MATT: Ooh, 22 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: And
19 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Tank. Fucking tank.
MATT: You take seven points of
bludgeoning damage, reduced to three.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Four points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to two.
MATT: And eight points of poison damage that is not reduced,
and I need you to make constitution saving throw.
ASHLEY: Okay.
18.
MATT: All right, you are not poisoned.
ASHLEY: Okay.
(exhales)
TALIESIN: Good con, good con.
MATT: Okay.
That brings us to Caleb.
LIAM: I'm hoping to use my reaction to shout.
MATT: Actually, hold on. This guy,
I forgot about this guy here has to go. My apologies.
LIAM: Bluest of balls.
I would like to use my reaction to shout:
Caduceus, Jester, duck! Get down!
MATT: All right.
Oh, and there's the guy-- the guy next to you, Yasha,
hasn't attacked you yet, did he?
ASHLEY: No.
MATT: Right, so.
ASHLEY: What you just did, it was-- yeah.
MATT: The other guy.
So the guy below is going to go ahead and go after you.
That is going to be a 20 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: 18 to hit.
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm.
MATT: And
16 hit.
ASHLEY: No.
MATT: That misses, all righty. So you take
six points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to three.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: And
six points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to three.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Fucking rage.
All right. The guy up here has a stunned Marius
and stunned Beauregard. It's going to split its attacks
between the two of you.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: So it's going to attack
you first, Beauregard, with advantage.
That's going to be a 20 to hit.
MARISHA: Yep. Just hits.
MATT: Attacking Marius.
That's an 18, that hits.
Then back to you, Beauregard, with its quill.
And that is going to be,
that's a 23 to hit, but you're immune to poison
so it doesn't do anything, but it's unaware of that.
So you, Beauregard, you take--
MARISHA: Ouch, you did it again!
MATT: 11 points bludgeoning damage.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Marius takes five points of bludgeoning damage.
TALIESIN: Fuck my life.
MATT: Marius is starting to look kind of hurt.
TALIESIN: We are not even out of the bottom of the ship yet.
MARISHA: We started--
MATT: Yep.
All right, finishing up
with their turn, now it is your turn, Caleb.
LIAM: So I just used a reaction to yell to Caduceus
and Jester to duck,
so it's up to them--
TALIESIN: I will use my reaction
to crouch or at least pull
against the wall, get out
of the way if you're going to
shoot something by me.
MATT: Unfortunately, it's not your turn yet, so no.
LIAM: Not as a reaction, they can't--?
MATT: Part of the strategy here is you have to--
if they're going to move out of the way,
they have to do that on their turn.
LIAM: Okay, they don't, so I will
not do the spell I was going to do.
I will cast Polymorph again. 17.
TRAVIS: Nice. Let's go.
MATT: Okay, on the same guy there.
That is going to be a...
TALIESIN: About to take-- nah--
MATT: 16.
SAM: Hey!
LAURA: Hey!
MATT: 17 right, is your DC?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: So yeah, no, that works.
What are you polymorphing him as?
LIAM: A mackerel.
MATT: (laughs)
ASHLEY: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: What is a mackerel? A bird?
LIAM: It's a big, fat fish.
TRAVIS: Oh!
MATT: Big, fat fish.
We'll say--
TRAVIS: Braveheart.
MATT: We'll just use this light as the mackerel there.
LIAM: That's not what I wanted to do.
MATT: So now (flopping)--
on the ground. We're talking, like,
Faith No More "Epic" video just like--
(flopping) on the ground.
TRAVIS: Good pull.
LIAM: And I will use the rest of my turn to say:
Throw it out one of the portholes.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: Okay. All right, that finishes Caleb's go.
It's now their turn. So it's the deep--
whatever. You don't know their names yet.
TRAVIS: The snea snawn.
LAURA: Pretty sure they can get--
TRAVIS: The deep what?
MATT: Nothing.
SAM: What happens to the people
in the Spirit Guardian--?
TRAVIS: (stabbing)
MARISHA: Ugh! Another tentacle attack!
Fuck!
TALIESIN: If don't want them to back off until--
If I can see a shift, I think I can pull it back.
MATT: I'm going to double check on that.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's the-- my question.
MARISHA: I'm not into this. I'm not into this!
TRAVIS: Just kill me, man!
MARISHA: Not my kink!
MATT: When you cast the spell
you can designate targets.
So he's going to take damage. Okay.
So first, he makes the save.
Oh, that's a two, it's a failure, so--
25, I want to say? 25 points of damage.
MATT: Okay. I'll say a mackerel has one hit point.
Takes 24, immediately (bamfing).
LIAM: Yeah, good stuff.
(laughter)
MATT: He's looking really hurt though.
LAURA: That's good, though.
MATT: He's taken a lot of rough hits.
TALIESIN: Just double checking that it's 24.
MARISHA: I don't know, we didn't
really stick around for it.
She had her neck snapped.
TALIESIN: 24, uh--
Yeah. Radiant damage.
MATT: Okay, and that's him right there. Perfect.
So now it's the deep scions' turn.
This guy here is seeing you go up there.
What can he do?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, he spent
his entire turn as a fish.
SAM: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Cool.
MATT: Well, here, does it--
TALIESIN: Top of its turn, actually. No, shit.
MATT: Correct. So now he still has his turn to go.
TALIESIN: Yep. Never mind.
MATT: Okay.
In fact, we'll take his turn now.
He is going to go all in against Jester in front there.
First with the bite.
LAURA: I'm going to use--
MATT: That's a 19 to hit.
LAURA: 19 is my armor class.
MATT: So that hits.
LAURA: I'm going to use my reaction
to cast Hellish Rebuke.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Go for it.
So first you take, from the bite attack...
eight points of piercing damage.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Need you to make a
constitution saving throw for me.
SAM: Ho-o-o-ly mackerel.
LAURA: 10.
MATT: All right, you're fine.
You maintain your Blade Barrier.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
MATT: And so now you have your Hellish Rebuke.
Constitution save or dexterity save for it? Wisdom save?
TALIESIN: I just want to get us
all out of the bottom of this fucking boat.
LAURA: That is...
dex save.
MATT: Dex save. That is a 17.
LAURA: He saves, but he still takes half damage.
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: So that's 3d10.
10, 14, so seven points of cold damage.
MATT: Seven points cold damage. He's hurt real bad.
TALIESIN: Ah!
ASHLEY: Come on.
SAM: Come on!
MATT: He's lucky he made that save.
Second attack against you, Jester.
It's going to be a claw attack.
And that's going to be a 13.
Misses, you push away from your shield,
and as you push away with the shield,
the ice digs into it.
Takes its rusted-ass blade
and back swings against you for...
16 to hit.
LAURA: You miss again!
MATT: You just stop it with the shield
and push him back in place.
TRAVIS: Oh, man.
MATT: This guy up here...
he's going to go all in
on Orly because he's right there.
(groaning)
LAURA: No, Orly!
LIAM: God, we're eating shit here!
MATT: That's 22 to hit.
TALIESIN: Boo.
MARISHA: Jeez.
MATT: 16 to hits. That hits.
And--
yeah, all three hit.
So Orly takes...
eight points of--
LAURA: But the shell's really strong.
MATT: (quietly) That's piercing. Oh, it's a d6.
SAM: Maybe he can just sort of, (sucking sound)
suck himself back into the--
LAURA: He would if he wasn't stunned.
He can't do it.
SAM: Oh, he can't do it.
MATT: And then...
MARISHA: I think as tortles you can go into your-- uh huh--
and I think you get plus five to your AC when you do it.
But I think-- yeah.
LAURA: Ooh, that's cool.
SAM: But you roll around--
MATT: Orly is unconscious and bleeding out.
TALIESIN: Oh shit.
TRAVIS: Orly is unconscious and bleeding out.
SAM: Oh, no!
LAURA: Orly.
No!
SAM: You've got healing powers, don't you, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Not all the way up here.
MATT: That finishes
those guys' turn.
The stun wears off.
LAURA: Oh god.
SAM: Maybe Marius is a healer.
Eyy, Yasha can move!
ASHLEY: Eyy!
TALIESIN: For a little while.
MATT: This guy is still in bed
like, "What's going on?"
LAURA: And that other guy, too.
"Oh man, what's all these beetles around me?"
MATT: "I keep hearing--" Yeah. "What's going on out there?"
TALIESIN: (buzzes)
MATT: All righty.
Thank you for the sound effect.
All right, that finishes their go.
Caduceus and Veth, you guys are up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to move...
First thing I'm going to do, actually, is I'm going to cast
Sacred Flame on that jerk right in front of us.
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: For my action.
MATT: Sacred Flame?
TALIESIN: Yeah. That guy.
MATT: Okay.
Dexterity save. No, that's a fail.
TALIESIN: Okay, so that's...
13, 18 points of radiant damage.
MATT: You watch as the radiant burst bursts in the chest
and as he pulls back, the beetles
swarm into the wounds and start pouring out of the eyes
and the ears, eating them from the inside.
TALIESIN: I'm not in the mood.
LAURA: I'm just watching it like (gagging).
TALIESIN: I'm going to step and
take my full movement forward.
LAURA: I'm in shock from seeing that.
MATT: 10, 15, 20,
you can get, like, in the space-- I'll say there.
TALIESIN: Can I not get right next-- I will move--
MATT: I can say you can move--
TALIESIN: Into their combat zone.
I'm okay moving into their combat zone.
MATT: 5, 10, 15,
20. That's the rest of your movement
to climb over the cannon to get there.
TALIESIN: No problem.
All right.
MATT: That'll move that to the right.
LAURA: Ooh, very nice.
TALIESIN: I feel like they're all within 15.
They're all in there.
Cool. Cool, cool, cool.
Yeah. Um...
SAM: You've moved into their combat--
TALIESIN: As a bonus action, since I-- no, that was
a cantrip, so I could still
use a bonus action to cast a spell?
MATT: You can.
TALIESIN: It's a bonus action--
where's my bonus action spell--
LAURA: You can do healing.
I'm going to do--
just to help a little bit, I'm going to do...
Healing Word
just at level two. We're just going to do
a little spruce up for Veth there.
TRAVIS: "Little spruce up"?
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: A come up.
TALIESIN: That kind of sucks, but that's okay.
10 points of healing.
SAM: That's great!
MATT: Doesn't hurt.
TALIESIN: So you're up 10.
MATT: All right, that finishes
Caduceus' turn. Veth, you're up.
SAM: Caduceus moved into combat
range of the one right in front
of me, as in "is engaged with"?
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
SAM: Yeah.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Yep, yep, yep.
SAM: (gun cocking noise)
Bye bye!
I'll just shoot him in the face.
MATT: All righty. You are--
SAM: Come on. Oh, fuck shit balls shit.
MATT: You have disadvantage on your attack roll.
SAM: Oh, even worse.
Okay, that is a 14 to hit.
MATT: 14 hits.
(cheering)
These guys don't have an amazing armor class.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: That's pretty great.
SAM: Okay, we got 10, we got 20, we got 24,
we got 30 points of damage.
MATT: Nice! As its tentacles' wrapped
around, it's like (wet grunt, gasp)
and you see, like, the sucking sound from the wound
that's, like, the bolt is partially withdrawn from beneath
the sternum. It's leaking this
seawater-like liquid out of the wound.
SAM: Gross. Reload, fire again.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Even worse. 13!
Oh and at disadvantage. 13 to hit.
MATT: 13 just hits.
(cheering)
SAM: Look at that!
ASHLEY: There we go.
SAM: Another 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage. He's looking hurt.
SAM: No!
MARISHA: Damn it, this guy. What a dick.
MATT: That finish your turn?
SAM: Yeah. No movement.
MATT: All right.
SAM: Goddamn it! Thank you, Caduceus.
MATT: The crew's turn.
Marius is moving ahead and he turns and goes, "Orly!"
and he's going to attempt to strike
the guy that's next to him.
MARISHA: Come on, Marius.
Do something useful.
TALIESIN: (laughs) Wow! Really? Now?
MATT: That's an 11. Misses.
TRAVIS: We told him we needed a kill!
MATT: And an eight.
Literally, I think if you hadn't done that, he would've
rolled better. Fucking missed with both attacks.
LAURA: Oh, poor Marius! He's doing terrible!
TRAVIS: That's on you!
MARISHA: I didn't do that!
MATT: We'll say the Charm Person has worn off--
MARISHA: The dice did that.
MATT: -- because Orly is no longer conscious.
TALIESIN: Oh no.
SAM: Orly is no longer alive?
LAURA: Conscious.
SAM: Jesus.
MATT: Yeah, I will say-- let
me double check real fast.
SAM: Is he doing death saves at this point?
TALIESIN: Yep.
I mean, not yet, but yeah.
Top of his turn, he'll take--
SAM: If we lose this tortle, that's bad.
MATT: You know, it's not a concentration spell.
TALIESIN: Hey, thank you!
MATT: I'll say--
I'll say it maintains for now.
For the next hour or so. Or-- yeah.
All right so, that finishes his go there.
TRAVIS: This is fucking wild.
MATT: Five, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30.
He sees the blade barrier and is like,
"What the fuck is going on?"
TALIESIN: Go with it.
MATT: He's just going to
run up onto the top here of the crate
that holds all the cannonballs up there
and is getting in a position to attack the guy
that's between Caduceus and themself.
So Shelda is just up there,
but they used their action
to get up there, so that's their turn.
These guys can go. "Oh no, the hell's going on?"
SAM: "Oh, maybe I should go
and wake up, brush my teeth."
TRAVIS: Are any of those people Shelda?
SAM: Yeah, Shelda is the one
who just hopped up on the thing
and did not betray us.
LAURA: Oh, that's Gallan? Oops.
Of course he would sleep in the deck below.
SAM: Now don't you feel guilty?
TRAVIS: No. It's a pirate's life.
MATT: Yep. All right, back at the top.
TALIESIN: Oh, you still have your Spiritual Weapon up.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Yeah. I'm going to use my Spiritual Weapon
to attack the dude that's holding Nott.
MATT: You got it, go ahead and roll an attack.
LAURA: Oh!
23.
MATT: That hits.
LAURA: Woo, that's-- there it is. 20 points.
MATT: 20 points.
As the tentacle's squeezing Veth.
And you see Veth is (groaning) in the middle of its grasp.
It's not even looking up
at you, it glances up at Shelda.
LAURA: Ooh, I'm going to use the
Spiritual Weapon like a bat.
It's going to hit him and
it's going to slam him
into the Blade Barrier.
MATT: Okay.
So as it swings wide it--
whack-- smacks it upside the head and the shoulder
with just enough momentum to spin up over.
Shelda gets down low as the tentacle unravels,
spins over Shelda's back and
goes right into the blade wall.
It just gets wood chippered against that wall.
TRAVIS: (cackles)
Yes, yes.
LAURA: Sweet.
I'm going to run forward as
much as my movement will let me.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: What a mess that deck is.
LAURA: I know, this is just
fucking chaos in here.
MATT: 25, that's as--
LAURA: Well I'll use some of it--
I don't want to be right up next to this dude.
MATT: So there?
LAURA: And then I'm going to cast--
what is this?
At 2nd-level, I'm going
to cast Guiding Bolt
at this guy with Yasha.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
SAM: Popsicles, knives, beetles.
It's madness.
LAURA: 13.
MATT: 13 just hits.
MARISHA: Like the end of Poltergeist, just--
LAURA: 5d6.
MATT: Do it.
LAURA: One, two, three, four, five.
SAM: Ooh. Great stuff.
LAURA: Ooh!
11, 15, 17, 16 points.
MATT: 16 points.
SAM: You said 17 then 16?
LAURA: Oh yeah, I totally-- 18, yeah,
18 points and then--
TRAVIS: Oh, he's out.
LAURA: Sweet!
MATT: The bolt smashes into him
and falls back into the wall
and is looking over towards Yasha
and angrily goes to strike
as the arm just burns away
as the Guiding Bolt divine
energy begins to just tear
up the side and as it does,
you can just generally hear
the laughter of The Traveler
enjoying this embarrassing demise.
LAURA: I'm going to use
the rest of my movement now
to run towards the stairs as much as I can.
SAM: So we've cleared the deck?
LAURA: We cleared the deck.
SAM: Clear the decks!
MATT: That's as far as you can get
with the rest of your movement.
SAM: Who's that, is that me?
LAURA: Yeah, you're there.
MATT: There's you and there's a guy
right there on the other side.
SAM: Oh, there is a guy.
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Are you still on the ground?
SAM: I'm still lying in my bed.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: We're all, like,
tripping over the hammock that goes across.
MATT: Jester's turn's done.
Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Ah, okay!
Inspired by the storm
and these fish fucks.
I'm going to do--
light up my lightning gloves.
MATT: You got it.
MARISHA: And after seeing
fish fuck over here take down
Orly, I'm going to ignore this--
I'm going to look at Marius and be like:
Kill him. We need a kill.
And then I'm going to go deal with this guy.
MATT: This guy there?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All right. So you dart over to here,
you're coming up on the edge there.
MARISHA: Yes, I will.
MATT: All right, so as you rush up
to the side of that guy, go for it.
MARISHA: I do, like, a front flip onto the step?
MATT: Hell yeah.
MARISHA: And then pop pop.
SAM: (mumbles) A-pop pop.
MARISHA: That's not it, that doesn't count.
Okay, a 19 and a 17,
so 29 and 27.
MATT: Both hit. Nice.
TRAVIS: Big rolls, damn.
MARISHA: Yeah, those were great.
And then would you please plus--
All right, not too bad.
10.
18.
18 plus another six.
23 points of damage
on those two pops.
MATT: Nice.
MARISHA: A stunning strike!
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: Should have done it on the first one, but--
MATT: Ooh! Natural 18.
MARISHA: Damn it. Fucking shit.
Flurry of Blows!
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Pop, pop, pop.
LIAM: Bob, bob.
MARISHA: Ew.
Those were not great. 15 and 18.
MATT: The 18 hits.
MARISHA: Okay.
Okay.
12.
MATT: 12 points of damage.
MARISHA: Stunning Strike.
MATT: Stunning Strike.
(cackles)
19.
TRAVIS: Wow!
MATT: I'm rolling really good this battle.
It's making me happy.
MARISHA: And extract those aspects.
MATT: Indeed.
Not immune to any damage,
not resistant to any damage
and not immune to any conditions.
It is a free open market on this guy.
MARISHA: Okay. Okay.
TRAVIS: Cool.
MARISHA: Okay.
That's my turn.
MATT: All right.
This fella up here.
It's going to go ahead and look over the side
of the ship down into the waters.
And it's just going to sit there and survey the territory.
That brings us to Fjord. Your turn.
TRAVIS: Great.
I'll use half my movement to stand up out of prone.
I'm going to lean over the railing and s--
MATT: As soon as you lean over,
he was holding his action to Eldritch Blast you.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: You are, with the railing, you have a do have a bonus.
You have half cover, I'm giving you,
so it's plus two your AC.
TALIESIN: Oh.
MARISHA: And the pillows.
MATT: That is a 14. That still hits.
TRAVIS: Yep.
TALIESIN: Goddamn it.
SAM: [inaudible], Fjord.
MATT: You take eight points of force damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: Ooh! Natural 19.
Yeah. You take
10 points of force damage.
TRAVIS: Boof!
SAM: Oh no!
TRAVIS: I go unconscious.
MATT: And with the third and final hit.
TALIESIN: Would not hit him because
he would fall prone, wouldn't he?
MATT: No, it's all (three quick impacts). It's all at once.
So the third blast immediately,
takes away a death saving throw from you.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LAURA: But, no, you come right back.
TRAVIS: I do have Relentless Endurance.
MATT: That's true. So you're back to one hit point,
and then you get hit with the last blow.
LIAM: So you got all your death saves.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Which is important.
MATT: Now.
TRAVIS: I'm just up on a crow's nest.
MARISHA: Alone.
MATT: Well,
here's the thing.
You said you were leaning over the railing.
I need you to go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: On a one to 10, you fall over the edge.
On an 11 or higher, you fall back into the crow's nest.
SAM: Oh boy, this is the end.
TRAVIS: Eight.
SAM: Oh no!
LIAM: No, he's dead.
MARISHA: Well, no.
TRAVIS: I don't really know how I would-- It's fine.
LAURA: Like, it's splat.
MATT: Well.
ASHLEY: No, no, no.
MATT: Did you have a comment, you said?
TRAVIS: Nope.
Nope. No comment.
SAM: Oh boy.
ASHLEY: Is he going to fall prone from the mast?
TALIESIN: Could go a lot of ways here.
SAM: Rolling dama-- What is he rolling damage for?
LIAM: It's 1d6 for every ten feet.
SAM: No, I know, but these are death saves.
TALIESIN: No, but there may not need to be one.
LIAM: If he rolls a number higher than Fjord's
hit point total, it would auto-kill.
MATT: Yeah, which wouldn't happen, so it's fine.
I'm just rolling it because it's fun.
All right, so you impact onto the wet deck of the ship.
You do fail one death save.
TRAVIS: Just one?
MATT: Just one.
SAM: Okay, it's not terrible.
MARISHA: Beau just screams out at the sight of it.
MATT: Crack! You hear that impact and you turn.
TRAVIS: Isn't that two because I'm already unconscious?
MATT: Hmm? No. It's only a melee attack.
Well, "critical hit" does two death saves,
and you only get the critical hit automatically
if it's a melee attack.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: I just scream my head off and I just scream: Fjord!
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: Can we hear it, did we hear that below deck?
MATT: Yeah, you did.
TRAVIS: He baited me into that.
LAURA: I instantly drop my Blade Barrier.
MATT: You drop Blade Barrier?
LAURA: Uh-huh.
MATT: We'll say on your turn, we'll drop it.
All right, Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay. Seeing that everything's done down here,
I'm going to run up the stairs.
MATT: Okay. You run this way.
The guy who's on the inside of the barrier
does get an attack of opportunity on you.
ASHLEY: Wait.
TALIESIN: Oh, there's one left?
LAURA: There's a guy in here?
MATT: Right there.
TALIESIN: Oh, there is one left.
LAURA: Oh, none of us can see that guy.
TALIESIN: Okay.
ASHLEY: Oh, I didn't know there was another guy.
MATT: That's okay.
Do you still want to keep going
or you want to stay and fight?
ASHLEY: I heard a scream. Did we hear that?
MATT: Yeah, you heard a scream.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to start running upstairs.
MATT: Okay.
It will take an attack of opportunity.
TALIESIN: He ain't going to do nothing to you, anyway.
ASHLEY: That's fine.
TALIESIN: If he even hits.
MATT: That's that's going to be a
17.
ASHLEY: Yeah, just hits.
TALIESIN: Motherfuckers.
MATT: All right.
You take-- that'd be with the poison quills. So that'd be
nine points of poison damage.
I need you to make a
constitution saving throw for me.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
27.
MATT: Yeah, you're fine.
ASHLEY: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yay, con.
MATT: 30. As you emerge outside,
immediately there next to you,
you see one of the quilled
sea spawn creatures right there like (heavy breathing).
ASHLEY: Okay.
So I see.
MATT: You don't see-- you could maybe
barely see Fjord's hand
just past where the mast hits the deck.
LAURA: Would the sword have disappeared immediately
when he went unconscious, or would it still be out?
MATT: No, the sword's still out there.
ASHLEY: Okay.
TALIESIN: The yell was, "Fjord."
ASHLEY: So as soon as I get up there, I see Fjord laying
on the ground, I unleash a battle cry.
So
"within 60 feet who can hear you
"gain advantage on attack rolls and saving throws."
MARISHA: Yes! Yes!
ASHLEY: And I will attack
this guy in front of me.
MATT: Go for it. So you have advantage attack rolls.
ASHLEY: Okay.
TALIESIN: And you have advantage on--
and you and Orly both have advantage on saving throws.
TRAVIS: Does that apply to an unconscious person?
SAM: No, you can't hear.
MAYY: Hmm? I'd say probably, no.
Battle Cry doesn't effect you when you're unconscious.
ASHLEY: 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
ASHLEY: Okay.
Aw shit, that doesn't work because you can't hear it.
Sorry, panic.
MARISHA: Good [inaudible], though.
TALIESIN: Good thought, good thought.
SAM: You think we heard you downstairs?
ASHLEY: Savage Attack.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Much better.
26 points of damage.
MATT: 26 points of damage.
All right, so that was two attacks?
ASHLEY: That was one attack.
MATT: One attack. Nice.
ASHLEY: Second attack.
MATT: All right, the first attack breaks the
Charm Person that Orly had cast on it.
ASHLEY: Oh shit, he was charmed.
LAURA: You wouldn't have known that.
ASHLEY: I wouldn't have known that.
MATT: You do, however, as you strike with a melee attack,
the quills on its back
deals five points of piercing damage to you, reduced to two.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Go ahead and make your second attack.
ASHLEY: Natural 20.
MATT: Woo!
TRAVIS: Yo.
MATT: Oh!
MARISHA: Isn't going to matter.
ASHLEY: Five.
Ten.
18 points of damage.
TRAVIS: And roll the extra.
MATT: That's with the dice doubled, right?
ASHLEY: That was the dice doubled.
MATT: And then roll your Brutal Critical, the additional d6.
ASHLEY: Additional d6, okay, okay. Plus four.
MATT: So 20?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
ASHLEY: No.
TALIESIN: 22.
ASHLEY: 22, yeah, because it was 18.
MATT: Oh, sorry, the other was-- yeah, so 22.
He's really hurt. You do take another two points
of piercing damage. It was five, but reduced
from the quills as you strike with each melee attack.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: And it spins on you (heavy breathing).
In your direction.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: All right.
That finishes your turn, Yasha?
ASHLEY: (sighs) Yes.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: All right. It is now the sea spawns' turn.
As the guy was looking over the edge on his turn
off to the side of the ship.
TALIESIN: Just keep everyone okay for one more round.
TRAVIS: I'm incapacitated, so that
Hexblade's Curse goes away.
MATT: Gotcha.
TALIESIN: Goddamn it.
ASHLEY: Fucking-- another [inaudible].
TALIESIN: All I need is just--
I can do this.
SAM: What is that thing? More?!
MATT: Two of them climb back up on the edge of the ship.
That's what he was looking at off the side.
LAURA: What?
ASHLEY: Oh my god.
LAURA: Asshole.
LIAM: This is hot.
MATT: This guy's getting up there.
LIAM: It's so good.
MATT: And this guy's going to dart over
towards Yasha.
ASHLEY: Are they just going to keep coming?
LAURA: (uncertain sound)
TALIESIN: I don't know.
MATT: The one against you, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Kill these head-- yep.
MATT: That's going to be an 18.
MARISHA: Miss.
LIAM: I think it's dickheads.
MATT: 14.
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: And with its quills-- you're immune to it.
(laughs)
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Against you, Yasha, It's going to be an attack.
17.
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: 11.
ASHLEY: Nope.
MATT: And with its tentacle.
It's 22.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Okay, so you take--
MARISHA: "Yep. Nope. Okay."
MATT: Six-- three points of bludgeoning damage.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: And then from the tentacle,
which does grapple you,
oof, you take 14 points of bludgeoning damage,
reduced to seven,
and you are grappled by that guy.
TALIESIN: Goddamn it, I just have to get up there.
I just have to get up there. Fuck, fuck, fuck.
MATT: The guy you had just attacked, who's really hurt,
turns around and is going to attempt strike at you as well.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: That is
15. So that's a miss.
18, that's a hit. And with the tentacle.
Oof!
It's another 24.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: All right, so you take
10, five points of bludgeoning damage.
Then from the other tentacle,
that's going to be 11 points,
so another five points of bludgeoning damage.
The one over there that's with Marius is going to go ahead
and attack him three times.
That's a miss.
Wow, a miss. Marius is being all dodgy suddenly.
SAM: Yeah! He's inspired by Beau's--
MATT: And miss! I rolled a three, and a four, then a four.
Marius is like, "Try me, bitch!"
No impact there.
All right, and the one down there that is currently
in base to base with you guys is going to go ahead and--
you're the one on the ground still,
so it's going to go after--
TALIESIN: Takes damage at the start of its turn.
MATT: That's true, yes, you're right. So the save is--
That's a failure on the save.
TALIESIN: That's, let's see, 12.
14 points of radiant damage.
MATT: 14 points of radiant damage.
SAM: Has that guy been damaged yet?
LAURA: Yeah, he went through Blade Barrier, so.
MATT: Yeah. That'll do it.
(cheering)
So it doesn't even attack. It goes turns towards Jester,
and as it does, the beetles swarm over it.
You hear the (buzzing) and then as the beetles scatter away,
you see the dull bones beneath
that are bendy and cartilage-like.
LAURA: ♪ I like the beetles! ♪
TRAVIS: Like a bone processor.
MATT: Yeah.
All righty, that finishes their turn.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Caleb looks down the entire length of the boat
and this is terrible. He pulls out a raven's feather
and waves his hand in the air and casts Fly on himself.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: And he is going to move quickly up this way
and out one of the same holes that the sea spawn came in.
SAM: Snea snawn.
LIAM: And--
MATT: Five--
TALIESIN: There's a knife wall there.
LIAM: No, I thought it dropped.
TALIESIN: Not yet.
LAURA: It's going to drop on my turn.
MATT: Correct, so you have to go out this way.
If you want to.
I will say, make a
general strength check for me.
LIAM: Strength check.
It is a--
12.
MATT: Okay.
So yeah. You get just outside of that gun porthole there.
LIAM: That's as far as I can go?
I can't get up and see deck?
MATT: What's your fly feet?
LIAM: 60 feet.
MATT: Oh, 60. Okay, sorry, I thought that was 30.
So then that'll get you
I'd say.
SAM: Snea snong.
Yeah.
MATT: Right there.
SAM: There's the boy.
TRAVIS: That's a flying wizard.
LIAM: Move there as equally, or--
MATT: Yeah, that's fine, I think.
LIAM: That's it. It's the end of my turn.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Just Doctor Strange-ing.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: With this dramatic music.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: ♪ La la! ♪
(laughter)
MATT: That brings us to
this fella's turn.
SAM: Ew.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: He is going to go ahead and--
you watch his jaws (fluttering)
LAURA: Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. No!
MATT: (screeches)
He screeches out because he hasn't done it yet.
I need everybody to go ahead
and make a wisdom saving throw for me, please.
SAM: What happens if you get stunned when you're flying?
LIAM: Drop in the ocean.
SAM: Oh Jesus!
Maybe? No?
Oh, fuck this.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
MATT: So Fjord? Oh.
TRAVIS: No, I'm unconscious.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: 12, stunned.
LAURA: No!
MARISHA: Oh, wait! We have advantage
because of Battle Cry, right?
MATT: You do, yeah. Roll again.
ASHLEY: Good call.
MARISHA: Hang on, hang on, hang on!
SAM: Even worse.
MARISHA: Even worse, 12.
MATT: All right, stunned.
LIAM: 16.
MATT: 16, you succeed.
SAM: 11.
MATT: Stunned.
LAURA: No!
SAM: Is this a frightened condition, by any chance?
MATT: No.
LAURA: 24.
MATT: You're fine.
TALIESIN: I'm fine, like, I rolled a 19.
ASHLEY: 17.
MATT: You guys are fine. The rest of the crew here.
SAM: Can't get out of the goddamn hammock.
MATT: Marius...
Marius succeeds!
TRAVIS: Hey, Marius lives! Marius is doing better than I am!
MATT: The two other crew. We have Shelda...
Fails. Shelda is stunned down below deck.
MARISHA: He's still trying. He's trying real hard.
MATT: Oh, and Gallan succeeds. All right.
SAM: That's stunned.
What can you do when you're stunned?
MATT: Finishing that.
MARISHA: You can't do shit when you're stunned.
You're just stunned.
SAM: "Incapacitated. You can't move,
you can speak falteringly."
MATT: And is going to go ahead and move.
MARISHA: People have advantage on you when they attack.
MATT: 25, I'll say, to get up there. Goes past stunned Beau,
like, darts and clambers over the edge of the ship to
get back up on the back deck there.
All right, that finishes his go.
Caduceus and Veth.
Veth, you are stunned. Caduceus.
SAM: Can't do shit.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take my full movement to get up.
Are there two-- full movement to get up.
MATT: Five--
30.
You can't get out because Yasha.
TALIESIN: Double my move now.
LAURA: But you can go out that one.
TALIESIN: Are there two stairs?
LAURA: There's two stairs.
MATT: Oh, that's true. So instead, we can go--
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: Well, no, this goes below deck.
LAURA: Oh, I thought they both went up.
MATT: Yasha is right there in the way.
And, you know what? I'll say you can pass through,
if you want to, and come out on this side.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Okay.
Do I still have-- I'm going to--
can I see everybody?
MATT: You can see...
You can see most everybody.
TALIESIN: Okay, um...
LAURA: Save the day, Caduceus!
Save the day, Caduceus!
TALIESIN: I was trying to figure out--
everyone's within, like, 60 feet right?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Okay and I can see even
the unconscious people from where I am?
MATT: You can. You had to use your
action to get up here, by the way.
TALIESIN: I know.
Is that my full movement or--?
MATT: I'll say you can probably get--
TALIESIN: Just so I can just really--
All right, I'm going to
cast as my bonus action.
Watch this shit.
Where did my bonus action go?
I'm too far, hold on.
Not Healing Word--
MATT: Actually as a point, because you
did move into Yasha's space in this way,
that guy does get an attack of opportunity against you.
TALIESIN: Oh, what, because I moved into the space?
MATT: Because you moved through
Yasha's space to get through there.
So, he would get an attack on you.
That is a 21 to hit.
TALIESIN: That hits.
MATT: You take...
That would be nine points of bludgeoning damage
and you are grappled.
MARISHA: Are you breaking the fourth wall?
TALIESIN: I can still cast and do shit like that?
LAURA: Yeah. You can still cast--
MATT: You can still cast, but grappling
gets a little weird here. This is a problem.
You moved out of the space--
TALIESIN: Oh, if I didn't move--
I mean, he would have stopped
me from moving any further
than where I am so I'm still--
MATT: Well, no, because you would have--
as soon as you left he would
have triggered the attack.
Which would have kept you in that space,
but Yasha's already occupying it.
TALIESIN: Oh, then--
LAURA: You'd be, like, up against Yasha.
MATT: So you'd be, like, back in the hallway
like right behind Yasha.
'Cause to be grappled you have to be--
TALIESIN: Can I see the deck from where I am?
MATT: From where you are, you can see the deck.
You would be potentially right
here, right behind Yasha--
TALIESIN: Cool, so can I see Orly?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: Can I see Fjord?
MATT: No, because you're still below deck.
SAM: Goddamn it.
TALIESIN: I'm not level enough?
LAURA: Like his head is not above--
MATT: Your head is up, but right now--
TALIESIN: I am tall.
MATT: You are pretty tall.
It's finicky based on that this is in the way, technically,
of the space and you're in the stairs
behind Yasha and this other guy there.
I'll say roll a perception check with disadvantage.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
MATT: We'll go with this to see.
TALIESIN: That's 19.
MATT: 19.
Yeah, I'll say you can see him.
TRAVIS: Oh, man.
MATT: So yeah. I'll say you can--
You cannot see Orly, but you can see Fjord.
TALIESIN: And I'm rolling my--
do I roll my constitution save
for my concentration spell now or later?
MATT: You do.
MARISHA: You get advantage.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TALIESIN: That's...
17.
MATT: 17, okay.
TALIESIN: And now--
MATT: Technically--
MATT: That's where it's--
TALIESIN: Yep, that's fine.
Now I'm going to cast as my bonus action...
Lord, where is it, where is it?
Mass Healing Word?
MATT: Mass Healing Word, nice.
TALIESIN: Mass Healing Word at level four.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: So every friendly within 60 feet
who I can see-- hold on,
gets--
if you're unconscious, wait.
SAM: Wait, you can see?
TALIESIN: Everybody within 60 feet that I can see.
LAURA: But you can see Veth, too, right?
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: Just above deck.
Six-- gets 11 hit points.
MATT: So 11 points to you, Fjord.
TALIESIN: No, Fjord, because he's unconscious--
MATT: Oh, that's right.
TALIESIN: Gets 13.
MATT: Right, it's max'ed.
TALIESIN: And Orly also gets 13.
MATT: That's true.
SAM: Orly!
ASHLEY: Yes.
TRAVIS: Thank you very much.
TALIESIN: And Caleb's gets--
LIAM: I'm at full.
MATT: All right
LIAM: But thank you.
TALIESIN: Fuck my life.
TRAVIS: Thank you very much.
ASHLEY: That was awesome.
MATT: That was that was some
finicky stuff and you did well.
That was great.
All righty. Finishing Caduceus' turn. Veth, you're stunned.
SAM: Yep.
MATT: The crew.
Stunned. He's going to go ahead and move.
SAM: "What's going on upstairs?"
MATT: 30, "what the fuck?"
SAM: "Oh god, there's blades all over my face!"
MATT: "What the fuck?! What? Jesus Christ!"
LAURA: I did it out of (mumbles).
I avoided the stairs.
MATT: I would s--
SAM: Take them down.
LAURA: No, god! Gallan, Caleb, and Jester--
MATT: No, Gallan rolled high enough to where he was like,
"Shit!"
Didn't get an a bunch more axe wounds to the face.
That's the end of his turn now.
All right, Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I can't get upstairs
because everybody's blocking everything.
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: Hmm.
LAURA: This is stupid.
TALIESIN: Sorry.
MATT: It's a traffic jam.
ASHLEY: Sorry.
LAURA: I know, but it's going to use up all my--
it's an action to do it.
I'm going to drop Blade Barrier,
so I don't set off any sparks.
MATT: All right.
SAM: Except for the--
LAURA: -- the ones that I've been doing.
MATT: Thankfully, like, all the gun powder is here. (laughs)
LAURA: I'm going to--
I've got a question.
MATT: Yeah?
LAURA: With my
Spiritual Weapon, since it's not actually corporeal,
can I float it up and through the ceiling
with its 20 movement?
MATT: You still have to be able to see where it's going.
LAURA: Okay.
If I use my action to Dimension Door
MATT: Then I would allow you to move it up through the floor
because it is ethereal, or spiritual.
LAURA: Okay, then I'm use my action to Dimension Door.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I don't know what's going on above deck
so I'm going to bamf up to here.
MATT: (boof) All right.
LAURA: And then I'm going to use my Spiritual Weapon.
I'm going to move it up through.
MATT: It comes up to about right
where Fjord is, as far as placement there.
SAM: It hits Fjord and kills him.
LAURA: Can it hit anything?
MATT: It can move over here and hit this guy, if you'd like.
LAURA: Okay, yeah.
MATT: With the last of its movement.
Go for it.
LAURA: That hits. 26.
MATT: 26. Yeah, it does.
LAURA: Ten, 15 points.
MATT: 15 points.
LAURA: Of serrated lollipop damage.
SAM: Ginsu lollipop.
MATT: Which it does. It shreds the creature.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Is taking a health potion
an action or a bonus action?
MATT: We usually say consider it as
a bonus action to take it.
All right, that finish your turn?
All right, Jester's done.
Beau.
MARISHA: Stunned.
MATT: You're stunned. All right.
It is this guy's turn now.
SAM: It's just me and Shelda.
LIAM: Which one? Big bad?
MATT: The angry guy up there.
TRAVIS: This cat, right?
MATT: Yep.
He is very--
just going to leap down. Make an acrobatics check.
It's cocked.
Yeah, he's fine.
SAM: You want to seem cool, but it's like--
TRAVIS: Well, he just jumped down in the fracas.
MATT: Watching the healing spell go out there
and looking down at all of a sudden the rising center
just gets angry and just as opposed to, like,
staying in the back and watching from a distance,
pulls out the Sword of Fathoms, leaps down,
and walks right up to Fjord on the ground.
LAURA: Oh god!
TALIESIN: Goddamn it.
MARISHA: No, come on.
MATT: Because you are
prone, it has advantage on the attacks.
SAM: Oh boy.
TALIESIN: God fucking damn it.
MATT: So first.
SAM: You've got 13 hit points.
MATT: First, it's going to attempt to
to bite you.
That's a natural 20.
LAURA: Wait. He can bite--
He's biting you while you're on the ground?
That means he has to lean forward
with his mouth and be like--
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: Very romantic.
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: How far is Fjord?
MATT: Fjord is about 25 feet from you.
TALIESIN: I'll cancel that just
for fucking shits and giggles.
MATT: Good on you.
MARISHA: (chanting) Grave cleric, grave cleric.
TALIESIN: It's not going to help
that much, but I don't know.
LAURA: It's something!
MATT: That's going to bring us to
nine points piercing damage.
TRAVIS: Okay.
SAM: Hey! That's not bad.
MATT: Its first attack with the Sword of Fathoms
is going to be a 15 to hit.
TRAVIS: Hits.
LAURA: Why don't you have any armor on?
TALIESIN: He was asleep.
TRAVIS: He stabbed me
in the chest while I was sleeping.
LAURA: You didn't sleep with your armor on?
TRAVIS: I guess not.
LAURA: I always sleep with armor on.
MATT: Technically, you weren't sleeping armor on.
We totally forgot when we were calculating your armor stuff.
LAURA: Oh.
MATT: So, technically, you should've taken
a lot more damage,
but it's fine.
LAURA: I always sleep with armor on, so.
MATT: Okay. That means
you also wake up with exhaustion points every morning.
LAURA: Okay, I don't always don't do that.
MATT: I made some mistakes in there, I'm not
considering the fact that
all of you guys should have no armor on.
ASHLEY: It's a lot to manage.
MATT: That's my bad, but you know what, that's fine.
I'll just give myself a few more bonuses
here on their end even it out.
MARISHA: (unhappy laugh)
LAURA: (fake sobbing)
MATT: All right.
SAM: Ooh boy.
MATT: You take--
SAM: I'm unconscious just from dropping a bunch.
MATT: 14 points of slashing damage.
TRAVIS: I am unconscious.
MATT: And four points psychic. You are unconscious.
Hits you with an auto-critical.
You immediately lose two death savings throws.
SAM: (groans)
TRAVIS: Two down.
MARISHA: So you only get that
Relentless Endurance thing once a day?
TRAVIS: Once a day.
MATT: All right, that finishes his turn.
You see as, like, it's jamming the blade into Fjord's chest,
as Fjord screams out and he goes unconscious
and is, like, digging into his sternum with the blade
like he's trying to carve a watermelon.
TRAVIS: Pulled out a health potion and I (gurgles)
It's just sitting in my hand.
MATT: All right. Fjord, it's your turn.
TRAVIS: Oh.
MATT: I need you to make a death throw for me.
MARISHA: Oh, this is it.
Oh, I hate this!
SAM: Yeah, this is, like, the worst.
TRAVIS: 11.
MATT: All right, that was a success.
(cheering)
That's a success.
Yasha, your turn.
ASHLEY: Too stressful! Okay.
MATT: You are grappled and you're in melee
with two of those guys.
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay, so porcupine guy.
Is he the one who was grappling me?
MATT: Technically, no, it's this guy here
that's grappling you in front of you.
ASHLEY: (growls) Okay, I will attack.
Can I try to get out of the grapple?
Porcupine guy has the tentacle, or they both do?
MATT: There's no porcupine guy here; they're both tentacle.
ASHLEY: They're both tentacle. Okay, got it.
So I will attack
the guy to the left first, I guess.
Or, well. You said the guy on the right is grappling me?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to try to get out of that.
MATT: Yep, go for it.
ASHLEY: Okay.
This is an attack, or this is a--
TRAVIS: I feel like we're
burning a max amount of calories right now.
MATT: This is a-- well, are you trying to break out of it?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Or are you trying to attack?
ASHLEY: I'll attack.
MATT: Up to you.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll attack.
That's cocked, but I forgot I was going to go reckless.
So just in case,
I'm glad I did that.
MATT: Okay, so you're going reckless.
ASHLEY: Ooh, both bad.
That was
well, 14.
MATT: Hits.
ASHLEY: Okay.
So first attack.
SAM: Oh boysie.
ASHLEY: Six, seven. Savage Attacker.
Can we get better? Yeah, that's better. Nine, ten.
20 points total for the first hit.
MATT: Mmkay.
ASHLEY: Okay.
Second hit.
That's good.
19.
MATT: 19 does hit.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LIAM: I'm checking line of sight.
ASHLEY: 15 points of damage.
MATT: 15, all right. He's looking hurt,
but he's still standing.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Is that your turn?
SAM: I don't want to get it back.
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: That's my fucking turn.
MATT: Yasha's done. It's now--
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
I'm going to move a little bit.
MATT: You can't, you're grappled.
ASHLEY: I'm fucking grappled, goddamn it.
TALIESIN: Top of their turn, they take damage.
MATT: Yes, they do.
So go ahead and roll that.
TRAVIS: Choked myself to death.
MATT: Fail on his end and
both fail.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah! That's nice.
LIAM: (like the Kool-Aid Man) Oh yeah!
TALIESIN: Fuck, I can't count.
17. 21 points of radiant damage to everyone
in that fucking circle.
LAURA: That you choose.
TALIESIN: Yeah, except-- yeah, I'll do
21 points to anybody I don't like.
MATT: Both of them just, like, immediately
are lifted off their feet as the swarm of celestial beetles
just consumes them in the middle of the air,
leaving their weird, floppy,
cartilage-like skeletons to hit the ground.
SAM: Caduceus is killing it.
LAURA: Yeah, Caduceus is doing it.
MATT: You are no longer grappled.
TALIESIN: Nope.
LAURA: You're doing it Caduceus, you're doing it.
MATT: -- say that. You're safe.
LAURA: Oh my god, safe!
MATT: All righty.
This guy here is going to go ahead and leap past.
MARISHA: Man, being stunned sucks!
MATT: And is going to go ahead and attack Fjord.
SAM: Oh! Oh, but that's not good.
MATT: It's an auto-crit.
TRAVIS: Well, I only had one death save left, so yeah.
MATT: As creature has its blade in his chest,
staring off to the side, it gives a look towards
one of the spined guys who had climbed over the edge.
It leaps down onto the ground,
puts its hands on the blade, the Sword of Fathoms,
as well and pushes down.
As it stabs all the way through Fjord's chest,
(exhale)
the breath leaves his mouth.
TRAVIS: Whoops.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: We got diamonds, right?
MARISHA: I think we have some.
SAM: Beauregard.
MATT: Caleb, it's your turn.
SAM: You just became the captain.
LIAM: Thinking about the conversation
I had with Fjord just yesterday,
I drag dust up my arm,
and point my hand at the head one
and cast Disintegrate.
MATT: Oh shit.
All righty.
LIAM: Two, four, six,
eight, ten.
TRAVIS: Like the ocean IRS, they're--
MATT: It's a dex saving throw for that?
LIAM: Three-- Yeah.
MARISHA: They will find you,
they will come collect from you.
LIAM: 67.
MATT: Oh, natural four, that's a fail.
LIAM: 67 points of damage.
TRAVIS: That's a lot.
MARISHA: Kill him.
MATT: All right. So as it blasts, the ice that's still
encasing its chest is scattered away
and you watch as the sickly green glow of the beam impacts
and watch as parts of its fleshy body begin to turn to dust.
(gasping) It backs away and it withdraws the blade from
the gaping wound in Fjord's chest.
It took some damage.
SAM: Not dead!
MATT: This guy's barely been hit this whole battle.
LIAM: And I would like to
hover
to here.
SAM: Are you super stunned still?
MARISHA: Until these guys' turns are over
because it ends on their turn.
LIAM: No, I will--
TRAVIS: (gasps)
In D&D Beyond, it now says "Dead" next to my name.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
SAM: How did that happen?
TRAVIS: In parentheses, it says (Dead).
MARISHA: In front of it, so it's just, like, death.
SAM: Oh god.
TRAVIS: It's a look.
SAM: Easy, easy, D&D Beyond.
MARISHA: Dang. Brutal.
SAM: Take it easy, guys.
LAURA: Brutal.
MATT: There you go, Caleb.
LIAM: I missed one point. I missed a die.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Is he dead?
MATT: No.
One point. 53. Got it. All right, cool.
Finishing Caleb's turn, it's now this guy's turn.
The stun wears off.
SAM: (gasps)
Uk'oteauregard!
MATT: At the end of his turn, but just--
MARISHA: Just immediately start crying.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Stunned and couldn't do shit while my friend died.
LIAM: Sob fight, sob fight.
MARISHA: (sobbing)
MATT: This guy is going to leap down
and attempt to attack Orly three times.
MARISHA: Is still in my range?
TALIESIN: Orly didn't get his move--
didn't get his thing, did he?
MATT: No, not yet.
So it's going to take a sword attack.
MARISHA: Is he in my range?
MATT: What's it? You're technically
still stunned until the end of his turn, I believe.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Let me double check.
"The end of its next turn." Yeah.
So it hits Orly with its sword for--
MARISHA: Fuck.
MATT: Well, Orly is unconscious.
And it has two more attacks.
MARISHA: Is he going to kill Orly, too?
MATT: That's a hit.
So after it slices Orly and Orly falls on the ground,
it jumps on top, takes the blade, and jams it from the side
of the shell through the armpit and inside Orly's torso.
He (gurgles).
And then twists on the inside and Orly just goes a limp.
(yelling and groaning)
TRAVIS: Holy fucking shit!
MATT: He pulls his blade out. (heavy breathing)
Gills (frilling)
on the sides of its neck.
TRAVIS: Have we ever had
two kills in, like?
And we're not even near done.
MARISHA: We haven't barely touched these fuckers.
SAM: I'm still lying in bed.
ASHLEY: There's two guys left?
LAURA: There's two big guys left.
TALIESIN: Are there any little guys left?
SAM: I have not
been able to get out of bed.
LIAM: Yes, there is.
Little guy right here.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LAURA: Little guy,
psycho guy, and the--
SAM: It's a hammock, so I'm just like--
MATT: All right. Caduceus, you're up.
Veth, you as well.
SAM: What, what's that?
LAURA: You're up next after Caduceus.
SAM: How fucking great.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take my movement
as close to Fjord as I can get.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Is that guy still alive?
MATT: You can get right next to Fjord.
TALIESIN: All right.
LIAM: Where are Grog's hit points now?
TRAVIS: I miss them every day.
TALIESIN: And I'm going to--
MARISHA: You went down as Grog, but your hit points--
TALIESIN: Orly's out, right?
MATT: Orly and Fjord are both dead.
TALIESIN: Okay, that's cool.
I'm going to cast--
Where is it?
SAM: Did Marius get a kill yet?
TRAVIS: Who? No.
TALIESIN: Just figuring it out.
MARISHA: His one job, he has one job.
MATT: He's not an adventurer, guys.
TRAVIS: It's not what he is,
it's what he can be.
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast--
who's the biggest problem right now?
LAURA: The dude that just, like--
MATT: I mean, there's the one guy that killed Fjord--
TALIESIN: That'll do.
MATT: -- seems to be visually the most kind of the leader.
They're all, like, looking and taking cues from this.
TRAVIS: He's the most hit pointed-up.
He just had Armor of Agathys be dispelled.
SAM: Are both people with your sword,
are both people with men?
ASHLEY: Was he the one that Caleb just hit?
TRAVIS: I can't tell the gender.
MATT: It's hard to tell gender.
What are you doing, Caduceus?
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast
Blight.
How far away am I from this?
MATT: Oh, like 10 feet.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: Blight against the main guy?
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Blight at 5th-level
against the main guy.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I just put you on my water bottle.
MATT: That is
natural 18.
TALIESIN: Motherfucker.
MATT: Doesn't get a bonus.
Oh, no, plus four, so it'd be 22.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: Still takes half damage.
TALIESIN: Okay, that's-- here we go. Half damage is fine.
LAURA: Are we still doing advantage on
attacks and saving throws?
MATT: Nope, that faded.
TALIESIN: This sucks.
ASHLEY: My turn's done.
12, 17.
ASHLEY: Oh, we went a full round.
TALIESIN: 17.
TRAVIS: Should've had Caleb do the silver string.
Captain's quarters.
MARISHA: Oh my god, yeah.
TALIESIN: I rolled wrong, hold on, sorry.
I was rolling wrong. I'm so sorry, one second.
'Cause I'm having a mild conniption.
TRAVIS: Only time we don't sleep in the dome.
TALIESIN: All right, this'll do it.
MARISHA: Nice, cozy, just listening
to the rain lull us to sleep.
TALIESIN: 12 plus 14 is--
please help.
LAURA: 30.
TALIESIN: Is 30?
LAURA: No.
LAURA: 12 plus 14 is 26.
TALIESIN: 26 and then
26, 29,
(counting)
44 points of necrotic damage.
LAURA: Wow.
MATT: It takes 22.
You see the moisture pull out of the body
and the gray areas, all of a sudden the veins darken
and the jaw turns gray on one side goes limp. (snarls)
Starting to look hurt.
SAM: Starting to.
TALIESIN: Yeah as a...
bonus action-- can I do this for a bonus action? Let's see.
Where are we?
MATT: Veth, what're you doing?
TALIESIN: Nope, never mind.
SAM: I'm getting out of bed.
MATT: There you go.
SAM: It's half my movement.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Use the other half to go upstairs.
TALIESIN: Bonus action to turn invisible.
MATT: You have your action still.
SAM: Bonus action to dash.
MATT: You emerge right next to Yasha,
right there, in the middle of the ship.
SAM: Do I see any enemies?
And are any of them engaged in a combat scenario?
MATT: Currently, yes, cause they're both next to Beauregard
so you can see both. The main guy has half cover,
the other guy here does not.
SAM: I will go for the one without half cover.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: And fire-- I will cast Brenatto's Crossbow.
(laughter)
SAM: And fire my crossbow.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Shit! 16.
MATT: 16 against him hits.
(cheering)
LAURA: Ooh.
SAM: Hey, that's something.
Okay, total: 14, 23--
29 points of damage.
MATT: Oh man, he's looking real bad.
(impacts, groaning)
It tries to pull it out.
The barbed end of it,
it pulls some internal organ and viscera with it.
It throws it on the ground.
It spatters that weird clear fluid.
SAM: That's all I got.
MATT: All right. Top the round, Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I'm going to bring my Spiritual Weapon,
and slam him in the back of the head.
MATT: Of the main guy?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
LAURA: 22.
MATT: 22 hits.
LAURA: Come on! Nine points.
MATT: Nine points of damage. He takes the hit.
LAURA: At the same time,
I'm going to-- is he looking rough, did you say?
MATT: He's starting to look hurt, yeah.
LAURA: At 5th-level, I'm going to
shoot my hand forward and I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt.
MATT: Okay, go for it. Roll for an attack.
LAURA: 25.
MATT: 25? That definitely hits.
(laughs)
TRAVIS: Come on, 5th-level.
LAURA: Yep, yep. 10, 15--
MARISHA: This the super hurt one?
LAURA: 19, 21, and then three more.
SAM: Three more?!
LAURA: 21.
27, 29.
32 points of radiant damage.
MATT: 32 points of radiant damage?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
Got it. It blasts him and you
see now he's (wincing, panting).
It's starting to show some real hurt,
and now its body is glittering.
LAURA: Yes.
TRAVIS: Oh, right, advantage on him.
MARISHA: Who did you hit? Did you hit--?
LAURA: The big guy.
MARISHA: On top of Fjord?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Are you going to move position?
LAURA: I'm going to run forward to the edge of the...
MATT: To the edge of?
LAURA: Can I jump down?
So I can see-- how far can I get?
MATT: You can get-- from there's (counting) 30.
You can get there.
LAURA: No, I'll be about there.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: My god, it's just so much chaos in here.
MATT: I know, isn't it?
All right, that's your turn?
LAURA: I don't think I-- (groans)
MATT: Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: You good?
MARISHA: Beau is furious and is going to revert back to
18-year-old, barroom-brawl Beau,
and she's going to leap on the back of this fuck
that killed Fjord.
TRAVIS: Nice, pool hall-style.
MATT: You got it.
MARISHA: And grab them by the front of his face
and just fucking pummel him in his fucking face.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: Do it.
MARISHA: Just do, like, that crazy bitch
on his back.
TRAVIS: Fucking banjo playing.
MARISHA: Pop.
ASHLEY: (banjo sounds)
MARISHA: 26.
MATT: That hits.
MARISHA: Stunning strike.
MATT: Immune to stun.
LAURA: Ugh!
MARISHA: He's immune to stun? That one is?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Because I did the thing.
MATT: It's a different creature, a different stat set.
LAURA: (laughs)
MATT: Roll damage.
LAURA: How many things just popped on her?
TRAVIS: There's a lot. Couple of cracks over here.
TALIESIN: 15 spinal chunks.
MARISHA: 11.
LAURA: Marisha's head just falls off.
MARISHA: (rolling thuds)
MATT: Oh god!
SAM: Credits roll.
MATT: Roll her damage.
MARISHA: In the Dwarven Forge cam. Second pop: 26 again.
MATT: 26, all right.
MARISHA: Eight damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage, all righty.
MARISHA: Fuck. And then--
Oh, I had advantage on that first one, right?
LAURA: Ah, you did.
MATT: Yes, you did.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Go ahead and roll just to see.
MARISHA: A critical? Nope.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: And...
Flurry of Blows. Fuck this guy.
Pop pop.
Just four, and that one's cocked.
Okay, 25 and 19.
SAM: Yeah!
MATT: Both hit. Roll damage.
SAM: Killer.
MARISHA: Ooh, double eights, 16 plus 12.
What is that?
16, 28, 30. 30!
MATT: 30. Ooh, he's hurting.
MARISHA: Wait. 28. 28? 16 plus--
TRAVIS: 18 plus 12?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: 30.
MARISHA: 30. He's still standing?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Fuck.
MATT: Tough one.
Does that finish your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: It's now his turn.
MARISHA: I've got him by the hair.
TALIESIN: Takes damage.
MATT: Yes, top of his turn.
LAURA: Oh, good, good, good.
MATT: That is a 19.
TALIESIN: That does make his, so he takes half damage.
That's pretty good. That's okay.
(counting)
14. So half, that's seven points of damage.
MATT: You've got it.
TALIESIN: Of radiant damage.
LAURA: Did you add anything to it?
TALIESIN: There's nothing to add.
MATT: 7 points there.
TALIESIN: And half movement for inside the circles.
MATT: You got it.
All right. It's going to turn to the others and go,
(hissing speech)
ALL: No!
MATT: Starts speaking in a language that I don't think
any of you understand.
LIAM: Is it magical?
MATT: No.
LIAM: No.
MATT: Not this statement.
MARISHA: Is it Deep Speech?
MATT: Then it reaches down-- no, it is not--
grabs Fjord by the chest--
ASHLEY: Don't you fucking dare.
MATT: --and is going to attempt to Dimension Door.
LIAM: Counterspell.
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: 4th-level.
MATT: And does not go anywhere.
Well, no, because it is a 5th-level spell,
because it's a warlock, so you do still have to roll.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Ooh boy!
LAURA: Oh god!
SAM: Ooh.
MATT: Yeah, because it's all 5th-level spots
as a warlock, so roll.
LIAM: What am I doing here?
SAM: Rolling against--
MATT: You're rolling--
LIAM: A d10 plus the spell's level.
And it's my--
MATT: So a d10.
LIAM: And I add my modifier, right?
MATT: Correct, your intelligence modifier.
LIAM: 17.
MATT: He does not move.
(relieved cheering)
MATT: You watch as this purple energy begins to rise.
This dark ocean begins to swell up around
the two of them, and as it releases the incantation
to slam the ground, Caleb, flying up, sends his hands down
in this net. This spiraling net
of arcane runes grapples around and shatters
the growing doorway. Suddenly it's like, (frustrated growl).
Looks up angrily at you. (snarling)
SAM: Oh god.
MATT: It's going to try and move.
TALIESIN: Half speed.
MATT: Half speed with Fjord. You do have your reaction.
MARISHA: Yes, I do.
MATT: Make your attack.
LIAM: Kick his ass.
TALIESIN: Am I within range to make a reaction?
MATT: No.
MARISHA: 16 I think hits?
MATT: 16--
No. 17 is his armor class.
LIAM: Kick his ass, Bob!
SAM: Denied.
MATT: He's going to go ahead and --
TRAVIS: This way?
MATT: Half speed? Oh man, that half speed is fucking me up.
LAURA: Plus he's dragging Fjord, so.
MATT: Yeah, so he only gets, like, over to here.
LAURA: Does Marius get an attack?
MATT: No, technically he's in--
TRAVIS: Please, leave my fate to Marius.
(laughter)
SAM: "I'll help you! Ah, I'm off the boat."
MATT: Yeah, no, that half speed and dragging,
yeah, that's as far as he gets. Trying to drag Fjord
up on the edge because he has no other options.
Fucking Counterspell.
My bane!
All right.
Yasha, your turn.
MARISHA: Yasha!
ASHLEY: So, I'm going to--
can I get to him?
MATT: Yeah, you can get over, rushing past through Caduceus.
LAURA: Yeah, kill him!
MATT: You can come around this way
or you can go up on the edge of the boat. Up to you.
ASHLEY: I'll come around this way.
MATT: You come around this way.
ASHLEY: Okay, so.
MATT: It's dragging Fjord's lifeless corpse up towards
the lip of the boat, getting ready to jump into the ocean.
ASHLEY: Okay.
TRAVIS: Why? What'd I do?
LAURA: Because you've got the fucking thing still in you!
ASHLEY: 22.
TRAVIS: No, I don't.
MATT: Yeah, you do.
TALIESIN: Yeah, you do.
LAURA: You still got an orb in you, yo.
SAM: You had-- there was two. One fell out.
TRAVIS: But it was in the sword.
MATT: Well, the sword was symbolic of you having it.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Oh.
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: 22 hits.
SAM: Should have done x-rays!
LAURA: The ball's been inside of me this whole time.
ASHLEY: Seven, eight. I'm going to roll Savage Attacker.
It's the same, okay.
Five, six, seven.
I know.
Eight, that was better.
18 for the first hit.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
(cheering)
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, so he has a tentacle, yeah?
MATT: No tentacle. He's just, like, this giant clawed hand
and dragging Fjord by the chest wound
up towards the edge of the ship.
ASHLEY: Okay I want to do, like, a
Black Widow wrap around his neck.
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: (choking)
ASHLEY: And then I want to just pull his head back
so his neck breaks.
MATT: (snapping)
ASHLEY: And then I want to take his body,
throw it over the side,
and wrap his claw around a belaying pin
so he's a warning for anybody else who would
try to find the ship.
TRAVIS: Fucking sick!
MATT: After you snap his neck, you throw the body over,
and because the bones are, like, weirdly flexible,
you take and wrap it around, and the arm actually bends,
and wraps as it breaks in the same way,
and dislodges at all the joints,
and you take into you wrap it in
and he's just now dangling off the side of the ship,
the rain pouring.
ASHLEY: Okay, and then where's Fjord at this point?
MATT: Fjord is on the ground
right next to you just slumped there.
ASHLEY: Is still there another guy?
LAURA: Yeah, there is. There's another guy, Yasha.
MATT: You have another attack, if you want.
ASHLEY: I do have another attack, okay.
But he's on the ship? Fjord's on the ship?
MARISHA: He's next to me right there.
ASHLEY: Okay, so the other guy, I'll take an attack on him.
LIAM: Can you get there?
ASHLEY: Well yeah, where is he? I can't see with--
MATT: Right there, that guy's back right there.
LIAM: There's a guy by Beau.
MARISHA: Oh. Oh, there's two guys.
LIAM: Two guys.
MATT: Yep.
ASHLEY: There's two guys, okay.
Whoever I can get to from there.
MATT: Yep, there's the guy right there.
ASHLEY: Okay, got it.
Yeah, okay, same. So
22.
MATT: 22, okay.
ASHLEY: Does that hit?
MATT: That does hit, yes.
ASHLEY: Okay.
13 points of damage.
MATT: 13 points of damage, got it.
ASHLEY: Oh, this is so stressful.
MATT: Okay.
That finishes Yasha's go. It's now his turn.
He's going to go ahead and flee.
It's going to attempt to run--
LAURA: Can I get attack opportunity?
TALIESIN: And also start of his turn--
MATT: It does. Yep!
TRAVIS: Squad! What a squad!
SAM: (condescending halting noises)
TALIESIN: Make your save.
MATT: Fails his save.
TALIESIN: That's 16 points radiant damage
and he's still half speed.
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: And I--
I hit him with a 19.
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: With my axe.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.
LAURA: I have an axe!
MATT: Yasha, you actually get an
attack of opportunity as well.
ASHLEY: Yes!
Ooh!
MATT: You do the additional damage, too, because--
LAURA: Yeah, because of the poison thing.
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: Eight points. How much extra?
ASHLEY: 27.
MATT: That hits, roll damage.
LAURA: 14 points of damage.
MATT: 14 points of damage, nice.
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: Yeah, no. He tries to run and just gets--
He's like (impacts).
(laughter)
Fucking Ginsu-ed from every which way.
Caleb, you're up.
SAM: Wait, who's still alive?
MATT: There's one guy right there.
LAURA: Fucking--
LIAM: Big one.
LAURA: -- the stunner.
MARISHA: He's almost dead, though.
MATT: Yeah, he's looking really bad.
LIAM: Caleb just pulls out his adder's stomach
and draws it back like it's a bow
and releases Melf's Acid Arrow at 5th-level.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: Are you sure it's not Widogast's Acid Arrow?
LIAM: No, it's another famous wizard.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
(laughter)
MATT: Power play.
All right, is it a dexterity save or a spell attack?
LIAM: Make a-- it's dex.
MATT: Dex.
That is a natural two. Go ahead and roll damage.
LIAM: Four plus additional for everything
above two, so another three.
TRAVIS: Make him hurt.
LIAM: That's four--
MARISHA: That's good, that's good.
LIAM: -- eight, 12-- it is good.
16, 19.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
LIAM: 19, 21.
MATT: How do you want to do this, Caleb?
MARISHA: Lucky 21!
MATT: He's turning to try and jump off the ship.
LIAM: Yeah, as he's jumping, a beam of green arcane energy
shoots straight through the back of his head,
and then just starts to melt down and
melts a line down through his head,
down through his neck and through his chest.
MATT: Runs towards the edge and then (splashing)
slumps over the side and you watch the body slowly
(sloughing) melts in the middle of it
and it just slops to the ground in two halves.
LIAM: And I will use my movement to fly
and drop right down by Fjord's body and check in.
And here we are.
SAM: So wait, we've got Orly and Fjord dead?
LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: As you all--
ASHLEY: I'm shaking.
MATT: As you all, standing in the pouring rain here
on the deck of your ship.
LAURA: What is he going to do?
MATT: Sorry.
I need me some rain sounds.
SAM: Got to have some rain sounds for the drama.
MATT: You all independently walk up to see there,
in scattered pools of blood, unmoving,
the dead bodies of Fjord and Orly.
The storm still flashing overhead,
the thunder still roaring
in the middle of this moonless night.
None of the other armada ships, as far as you know,
are aware of what transpired here.
It sinks in
what had happened, possibly why,
and what needs to hopefully be done to rectify it.
And that's where we're going to end tonight's next episode.
TRAVIS: (groans)
LIAM: Wow!
MATT: Oh shit, we went late! I'm so sorry!
I wasn't even paying attention to the time.
Oh no, I feel really bad.
LIAM: What a thrill ride.
TRAVIS: We're the ones RPing
halfway through the boat voyage.
MATT: No, it's great, man.
TRAVIS: No, it's good.
LIAM: We did a Chekhov play for the first hour.
TRAVIS: I'm glad this happened here and not in Chicago.
MARISHA: Mmm. Mmm!
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: Wow!
TRAVIS: This map was out.
MARISHA: I know.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: Well, these were the
things he was crafting, I think.
MATT: Those were the things I was
building in secret in the hotel room.
TRAVIS: I have the third orb still in me;
it wasn't in the sword,
it was just representative of what's in my chest?
MATT: The way he was attacking you seem to be continuously
going for the chest--
TALIESIN: Keep digging.
MATT: -- where you had placed all the orbs into.
TRAVIS: That imagery with Yasha and the Fjord dream before
everything went wrong was amazing.
LAURA: What I loved was, like,
you were watching Yasha have a dream
and I looked over and you were like,
"Thank god it's not me."
TRAVIS: 100%.
LAURA: It's so hard when it's like, I know!
TRAVIS: I looked at Marisha and we like,
"I hate it when he gets like this--
"What?!"
ASHLEY: You try to not make eye contact with him.
I was, like--
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Wow.
LAURA: It's so much pressure!
ASHLEY: So much pressure.
LIAM: Great game.
MATT: Great game, guys.
SAM: Revivify you have to do within a minute,
and it's going to be a whole week.
TRAVIS: It's been two rounds.
MATT: It's been two rounds.
LAURA: No!
ASHLEY: It's close.
LAURA: It's only-- We've got time.
TALIESIN: I also have--
MATT: Two rounds.
TALIESIN: I actually have spells that can ex--
Yeah. There's stuff.
ASHLEY: There's stuff.
TALIESIN: There's stuff. I've got a lot of stuff.
TRAVIS: Just nobody trip on the way over, okay?
SAM: (falling, impact)
Oh no, I stabbed Fjord again!
MATT: All right, we'll pick up here next Thursday.
Thank you guys so much for sticking with us.
Have a wonderful night.
We love you very much and is it Thursday yet?
Good night.
LIAM: Wowie wowie.
(dramatic orchestral folk music)